i am good , i just got off work and tired , i have two jobs .	hi , what are you up to tonight ?
i rather read , i have read about 20 books this year .	dong some review on movies and about ready to go out and eat with the family ?
but a good movie is always good .	the movies are okay , but the books are so much better .
i work in the movies as well .	that is really cute , my son just started 2nd grade . that age range is the best .
yes it is neat , i stunt double , it is so much fun and hard work .	that is an excellent profession . for how long ?
nice , i only have one parent so now i help out my mom .	haha ! so , are you like a stay at home mom or something ?
she raised me right , i am just like her .	well , its tough , but i love her all the same .
now that i am older home depot is my toy r us .	i agree but my dad says i have to work for it
i am doing great . just relaxing with my two dogs .	i am good just working on my car and you ?
that is neat . what kind of volunteer work do you do ?	what kind of car do you drive ?
good for you . do you like vintage cars ? i have two older mustangs .	i am a makeup artist , and i drive for user . i have a blue mustang .
cars are my thing . vintage cars . i love working on them . wrestling ? do you enjoy it ?	i know right ! ! i am so into it ! ! i am also fan of country music .
i did not think about the crowd aspect of wrestling . i do not like crowds .	yes and my favorite is country music .
i agree . working out is a great way to burn off steam . do you like country music ?	do you like to work out ?
lol . she is more pop now . her old stuff was country . i like classic country .	i do i like all music , especially country . what is your favorite ?
i love spending time with my family	i am well , so tell me about your family ?
so then have you ever been to disneyland ?	ah , you have a child . only one ?
yes i love mickey mouse such a cute little rat	no , but it sounds like something they would enjoy !
man your lucky i am a baby delivery nurse and the pay sucks	love listening to music . really like the rolling stones .
i have to walk 3 miles to work to save money everyday what do you do ?	did you go to college before having a child . i did . i wasted years .
your economic skills are amazing	well what kind of diet are your family that s awesome
i am a ok nurse i have dripped some babies though but i am getting better	yes , that is absolutely right . do you have a family ?
i am doing good . just sipping tea . what do you do for work ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
i am sorry to hear that . what happened	i read all the time . bu ?
so what do you do now for fun ? i like to read .	what did you major in ?
what kind of dogs do you have ?	reading is a lot of fun . what types of books do you like ?
i love reading . i have a big library at my house .	reading . i get lost in our library . they have good history programs .
i have a tough time hearing so reading is my happy place .	what kind of books do you read ?
i work as a hearing impaired museum tour guide .	well , its tough , but i love her all the same .
do you live in the sky ? i do . in the clouds .	i am ai do that as well all the time
i make time stop . i have a superpower . i am a super hero .	my line of work keeps me very busy , so it is okay .
i love living in the clouds the best . do you have powers ?	yes , i think that i do .
i do not like blood . i vomit .	i do not . i have heard of it though .
i want to be a teacher when i grow up	that is disgusting , you should go see a doctor tomorrow .
i am a girl . i do not give out my name .	her initials are c . c .
i like science and art .	i think teaching is a great profession .
i am much more of a cat person actually	you are not allergic to cats are you ? i have two fluffy ones .
that is an adorable name for a turtle . i have 2 cats	oh i have animal do you have cats i like cats .
snow and winter , named after my favorite season	a little mutt named toto . get it ?
oh you are so young !	www i love dogs ! what kind of dog do you have ?
i am an old woman . i won a gold medal in 1992	i am in the 4th grade i turn 10 on dec . 20th .
no . i spend all of my money on hats ! i own over a thousand	no , i do not make enough money .
that is great . do you have a lot ?	i have a dog too , and 2 cats .
hi , i am doing pretty good these evening	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i actually have purple hair and i love it and enjoy watching war documentaries	i enjoy cooking . i volunteer at a soup kitchen
i have a bird and she loves cheeseburgers like me , my favorite	no , i do not have any pets either .
probably not but a bite here and there i think is okay	pets are nice . the owner at the soup kitchen i volunteer at has one .
i do love the holidays i volunteer a soup kitchen during the holiday season	i bit . reminds me of the holidays with friends and family .
oh man sorry about that , i am 33 and love giving back i grew up poor	well , 7 year old person , do not grow up . life sucks .
oh wow , i can imagine it was a very hard time	this work and everything in the world got me depressed
yes it really did , that is why i enjoy y volunteer work	so now did you change or you want to continue like that ?
good ! you ! celebrating with fellow centenarians	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
that sounds like fun . i like wine and dancing too !	what is your favorite video game ?
awesome ! walking like that you might live forever like me ! !	i like exercise , you should try it
you sound very like minded , just add some wine	true it is always fun to get lost in a good book .
fermented . i prefer well aged and fermented . i could bathe in it !	not particularly , i do like good wine though , do you ?
i think i should go grab a bottle now and get some dancing music on	blue cheese is bitter , though . even with wine i cannot enjoy it .
yes indeed . being a centenarian you learn to appreciate these things	its fun . whats your favorite drink ?
only if i can get a ride . i am very old and cannot drive	yes i am awesome today
how nice . you must love kids .	i am far too old for that
would you like to know the secret to living as long as i have ?	i love dogs , i have two of them .
drinking wine , and dancing in the moonlight .	maybe . are you married ? kids ?
doing both of those things has helped me make it to my 100th birthday .	yes that is good . do you like to watch tv ?
i may be old , but i am stronger than i look !	well as long as it makes you happy then keep doing it .
women were not even allowed to vote when i was a child .	only as old as you let yourself become , right ?
lots of things have changed . i remember when televisions were not a common household item .	yes , that is very true .
hello . how are you ? my pet turtle and i are sitting here .	i love animals i have a cat .
mommy says to pick up toys . i do not like to . i want to play dolls !	evening , i am well . yourself ?
i want to go next door and play with my best friend , not work !	what did you do before you retired ?
shame on you ! mommy says you should not gamble !	gambling ? , my mother she is my best friend and she gambles
no she did not ! i am telling my mommy on you !	yeah like she was rad she did all that !
but i want to play dollies with my best friend !	does she not let you ?
well i do not wanna play with you either !	i do not think i would either . its risky !
i am sorry ! do not be mad at me !	i hope i can ! haha
i completely get it . my mom is way too traditional for me !	i am doing good ! what is your father ?
i understand . when do you think you might be able to move ?	what do you want to be when you grow up ?
i do . i coach swimming at the pool near my house .	just part time after school
i am still in school . i cannot move until i finish my degree	yeah . ever thought about moving to another place ?
i want to be a computer programmer . are you in school ?	i studied lots of stuff . it is a very applicable major .
that sounds interesting . do you like it ?	i am still in school .
they are great . i really like the challenge . what do you want to teach ?	i am still in school .
three more years . i feel like i wil never get out . how about you ?	education . i hope to get a job teaching kindergarten .
things are so strict . my family is from india , so they just do not get it .	our dad does of course , you should study computer science when you are older !
i very rarely speak to people billy , because i am so famous	i am a video game tester .
i am working on a robot so i can have company that does not annoy me .	i am a video game tester .
i helped design starcraft . do you have time to play games without the cow	is that your only pet ?
i do twitch streaming for fun , so we do not have much in common do we ?	i see a lot of the country . i drive truck .
i like pizza , one thing in common . i live inland because i am allergic to water	yes . i love pizza . what do you love ?
very carefully , did you get flooded in texas ?	not really , i like to stay in . most days
good ! i have not seen a person in 5 years , have my stuff delivered	hi , i live in houston tx ; its flooded right now , but makes me think of the ocean .
hi ! i am an olympic gymnast , i do not read much .	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
yes , i have . i picked up a lovely yellow blouse there .	no , i prefer traveling by land or sea .
i have another two years before i can retire from gymnastics .	a long , long time ago .
i would like to go to culinary school , i am still young .	i am retired and loving it .
i mainly cook italian , and garlic bread .	me too traveling is fun .
i would love to be a pastry chef , i make earl grey shortbread a lot .	my favorite is cookies and cream . yours ?
i put it in the shortbread .	do you have a favorite dessert ?
hi i enjoy disney world and go every year	i have played the violin since i was in fourth grade . what about you ?
that is a good band . i love mickey mouse	haha that is cool you the youngest ?
i am also in the 3rd grade	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
no , i never have been . i like to go to the playground with friends	disney world they have lots of options to move around the park
i also like frozen the movie and sing a long with it .	we like any disney movie . actually going there next week with the kids .
that is awesome to hear !	that is funny ! i have drawn almost all disney characters from the movies
no , mom said i cannot have pets when i have my own place i can .	yes , i have one dog , you ?
i have a sister who is 10 years older than me	sort of , i have 1 sister , 2 step sisters and 3 step brothers . what about you ?
i am well friend . looking for new employment at the moment .	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
a writer . i am currently an er doctor .	a doctor . but for now i am only working part time . you ?
a man had his throat slit in a home invasion	i have never watched it , maybe i should start !
i have a daughter who people say is a child prodigy	it might help her build character . we expect a lot from her .
math ! i hate it ! lol . do you have children ?	she may understand , but she may just believe you are perfect how you are .
that is nice . what is your favorite movie ?	no , not really . i would be afraid my kids would get them when i was not looking .
mine is friday ! although i do love clueless too !	horror movies are my favorite
oh i hope so ! that would be awesome .	maybe i should write a mystery about it and it become a movie
i am busy studying psychology for my graduate school class . you ?	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
sounds cool ! i could be your dog walker when you are busy .	any other hobbies ? other interests ?
i love the outdoors . i can survive in the wilderness for weeks	do you do any reading ?
did your parents teach you to survive like mine did ?	i have figured out how to make a living walking dogs . fun !
i may have . what is it called ?	if it was i have not seen it .
i love that show ! i watch it between studying .	i heard about that but have not read it . what is it about ?
that must have been hard . my parents were always hiking with me .	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
it was fun . probably why i became a dog walker	true . maybe we could meet up when we are walking the dog sometime .
hello ! how has your day been ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i only eat kosher foods	hi , its going well and you ?
i like kosher salt a lot	i love raw veggies and ranch dressing , you ?
i like kosher salt more then regular salt	that is wonderful you are healthy and will have long life .
you must be a hot milf	i eat terrible food always but i stay fit
i like your music a lot	classical , rock , classical rock . ll . music is great for the mind .
i love my girl taylor	i like all types of music .
i know i love you too	i never heard of her .
i am a recording engineer myself . currently living in california	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well .
that sounds fun . i would rather be inside though .	i am a professional painter .
no one you know probably . the market was dead last year unfortunately .	i build models . airplanes , house , cars , shopping centers , etc .
i love car racing . i am not crazy about lawyers though .	i choose mexican food over everthing !
maybe he is the one that my ex left me for .	you are crazy dude . . . i love it .
i do not think so . i own my own studio and she tried to take it .	yes ! it is hard because their dad is dead beat . what is you profession ?
no she likes lies and cheating . lol	haha , no , probably not her then .
i am 46 with kids , maybe she did not like that .	yes ! it is hard because their dad is dead beat . what is you profession ?
my name is kelly . i am well . how are you ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
i am so sorry to hear that . my father also passed away . he drove for nascar .	its okay , we have come to terms with the loss . how are you ?
i thank him for his service .	sweet . i think he watches over me as i have been driving the back roads forever .
i play with my german shepherd named barnaby . he is my baby .	i like to work on cars its fun
i played softball years ago . i am too busy working for the us postal service .	i love watching baseball too .
i live in the southwest and i am deathly afraid of scorpions . not a good mix .	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
it is . i do like it here aside from that .	thought so . pets are fun . yes i have one german shepherd dog .
it is hot . but thankfully not humid today .	with the storm i do not blame you . is it raining now ?
hello . pretty good , thanks . and yourself ?	i am doing well thank you , and you ?
cool ! do you spend a lot of time biking ?	i am doing very well , now that i am off work . how are you ?
i love playing folk music . i actually hope to be a professional musician someday	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
i can play the guitar and the piano and i also like to sing .	i play piano and guitar
i m not a big drinker either . do you have a job ?	lol . everyone has to make a living and pay the bills .
nice ! i work as a custodian . not too glamorous but it pays the bills haha	i play guitar but i study music industry .
exactly . do you have other hobbies besides biking ?	my day job is being a musician lol
hey ! i am from nyc what about you ?	i am from boston , ma
so what brings you around here ? are you here for work ?	where are you from ? i am from chicago
oh okay . may i ask what your occupation is ?	not at the moment . do you ?
i went to college for chemistry , but i actually work in a bookstore now .	i am a teacher at a preschool .
i do not care for fashion as much as you dislike reading haha	do you like reading books ?
must be a very strong dislike then . i actually have a strange disdain toward the color orange	really ? when did you drop out ?
as a kid i was always bothered by this bright orange lamp my parents had	yes i like orange color as well
oh man must have been traumatizing . what do you do to relieve stress ?	haha they would never suspect a thing !
great , how are you doing today ?	i am good just watching a movie
watching horror movies is my favorite . how about you ?	i like reading and watching crappy tv
i see . what do you do for work	i enjoy spending time with my 5 year old son . he makes me the happiest person !
i used to work in hr , but now i stay home with my son .	i am a freelance artist .
he is in junior high . do you have any kids ?	yep . 23 . wish i was still a kid haha
what do you want to do ?	no , i work too much for kids .
that sounds nice . do you have any family line of work that you can get in to ?	i am still in school .
hello . all is moving great . and you ?	hey there , i am doing well , thank you for asking , you ?
alright . i work in it . if you do not mind , what work are you into ?	i am doing great . where do you work ?
the economic situation seem to be gradually picking up though	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
since you are addicted to internet , do you watch a lot of american sports ?	i am trying to start my own business online . do you have any idea about this ? !
ok . do you like dogs ?	yea i do . as much as role playing
do you think that the internet is pretty safe for children of late ?	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
ok . speaking about work , i have been at the same company for about 15 years	yeah . it can . just let them get use to each other day by day . whud
i kind of wonder why employees are not keen on loyalty these days	you must do a lot online .
i am thinking about my upcoming retirement . how about you ?	i am just sitting with my grandkids
very cool . my kids are grown . i am already 60 years old .	i am retired and loving it .
how old is your youngest ?	ll , i mostly enjoy traveling though .
i work as a librarian , but i am going to retire in the next couple of years .	work in the children section of the library .
did you stop when your eldest was born ?	i really should travel since i will be retiring in 6 months .
why did you have to ?	yeah i bet you get to travel all the time .
do your children like any interesting activities ?	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
do you like to travel ?	i work for a library . i do not have any children .
hi there . hmm i am not familiar with any . which area are you looking ?	yes , for i live in a concert apartment
maybe you can expand your options if you find another career .	i do not think it is safe period .
congratulations . i work in construction , started when i was 16 . it is great money .	that would be really awesome . i hope you get that someday
wow that is ambitious . i hope you succeed . personally i prefer mexican food over burgers .	i might be profitable . i say we try .
that sounds delicious . what type of music do you like ?	i will make tacos . my favorite .
nice . i listen to a lot of aerosmith , they are my favorite .	hop along is my current favorite , tupac will always rule .
great song . how long have you worked for burger king ?	what would you say your favorite band is ?
do you know the game starcraft ? i helped designing it !	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well
i usually stream the game on my twitch channel	who does not ! i totally agree
i am making this robot right now that looks like me !	remember , breathe in ! ! breath out ! ! breathe in ! ! breathe out ! ! !
i am kind of a nerd , i do not go out much and do not socialize .	it is one of my favorite things to do .
the worst part about my life is that i am allergic to water	haha not as bad as it sounds that is funny
i have to drink another substance that contains particles of hydrogen and oxygen	i drink water most of the time .
yeah i have a cat , how about you ?	no , i admit i do not .
that sounds awesome , but i have to go now , gotta start streaming . see ya !	i have a cat what about you
what state are you ? i am in california , age 46	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
i am good , and you ? i stay home all day and i like it	hi . i am doing alright . how about you ?
i love to go to church too , it help me deal with my ex . .	my ex husband was a dog person . me not so much .
she cheated me and stay with a lawyer	hmmm oh wow . well maybe you need to confront him about it .
it takes the power of god to change people , my kids are great	oh wow why not divorce her you are crazy
me too , i am a single dad , i do recordings in my studio	who is your favorite artist ?
what do you do ? do you want to meet me ?	i like all types of music .
i record soft rock and light jazz	not too me depends on the artist really
i am going to have pizza after meditation	hi , its going well . and you ?
it is like going to a peaceful place	cool . hey if you want meditation tips let me know . i do it a lot .
i used to like to talk	i like a lot of things , but can not think of much else right now
i have been silent for months now	i am buddhist also . fun fact .
something like that . where do you live	i am also a buddhist
i am not allowed to vocalize	i can speak four languages !
i am thinking about it	i am also a buddhist
i wish for world peace	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
i am good ! just finished working . you ?	doing well , thank you . living on a farm now .
it was tiring . trying to get the fields harvested for winter .	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
we grow corn and soybeans at my parents farm . what dog do you have ?	i am a farm vet . the animals love the fresh veggies , makes my job easy .
cute ! where do you hike ? my pet will not travel . she is a cow	he does country i know his music . do you have kids ?
no i live in the middle of no where . miles of country .	i live in colorado , what about you ?
pennsylvania . amish country . i feel out of place driving my big truck next to buggies	i live in ohio on a small farm , you ?
yeah . that is why i blast my country music . they hear me coming !	i already do ! i love driving in the country with them .
oh wow ! i never did that before ! sounds fun !	i love country ! and hip hop .
i would never do that . i hate my grey dog barnaby and scorpions .	what kind of car do you drive ?
keep trying . i like grey vans but a nascar car killed my daddy .	my oldest child is like that . i always have to help him out .
he does . barnaby is grey , a german shepherd and he hates scorpions too .	seriously ? wow . i never saw him as a kid .
mom says we are going to sue nascar for killing daddy .	haha , my father always said that pro sports are all scripted results
sure , but you have to get in line . my grey dog barnaby is dying too .	can you make a good cup of coffee ?
he can have mine . barnaby needs a new home .	i still love my dog son . he is just nuts .
oh okay . does he play with scorpions or dogs ?	i had a dog but he passed away .
great ! my dad died in a scorpion pit while driving a nascar car . you dance ?	oh yes . he is creepy . great show .
good you ? coloring my adult coloring book , do you like them ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
well how rude of you . where do you live ?	that is funny , what is the name of your dog ?
glad we do not live close . i am from a rural part of the u . s . , we farm .	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
that is cool . do you like hockey ?	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
i do too . especially nhl . have any pets ?	hockey is my favorite sports , what is yours ?
i have one dog , he is a german shepherd .	yes i do i have 3 dogs .
fruits , what about you ?	i love raw veggies and ranch dressing , you ?
they are decent ! my favorite is strawberries .	yes i love oranges they taste so good
i am great ! just been looking on twitter at news	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
tell me about yourself ?	www . cafepress . com lelesfashionshop1 if you want to check it out
depends if you win or not lol	i think people pay extra for that
i enjoy green living and just put solar panels on roof	lol i bet it is
yummy , i love cookouts . i am involved women rights movement	do you post about your food on social media ?
i work from home doing internet searches	i am a feminist . i work to make sure females have equality .
it has its benefits . i have plenty time tend my organic garden	do you like social media ? i am always online
they are so healthy for you	i love fruits an vegetables straight out the garden !
good , how are you tonight ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
awesome , what are you playing ?	i am doing great , and you ?
i like country too ! i am kinda tired tonight from a long day at the shipyard .	i am in the navy .
i am newly retired from the navy . i am a captain	i am in the navy .
that is amazing ! living the dream huh ?	i volunteer with the salvation army . what do you do for fun ?
i hope you do ! my passion is making a difference in the world .	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
do you volunteer with any charities	i agree with you , i donate as much as possible
i highly encourage you to , especially after you make it big !	do you have any favorite charities that you like to help out ?
i am doing well today	i am good . just got home from school !
i like the drums a lot	yes , do you play ?
i can tell you what i do not like	i play drums for fun . any hobbies ?
school . i really really do not like it	i like everything b l u e
at least we are on the same page	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
i do not like people	yes many people around all the time .
i do . they are quiet and peaceful .	i love animals more than most people
i do not like people	i love animals more than most people
yes i do after all i am a engineer .	no . like me , they are into gaming .
i am actually a recording engineer . do you have kids ?	i am a video game tester .
oh ok . i am a single dad . and my recording artist died last year . bad luck !	no . like me , they are into gaming .
i am fine . he just had a n accident here in california .	no . what kind of car do you drive ? i have a ford mustang !
that is cool . i am 46 how about you ?	are there any l . a . r . p events in the area ? we go to those often .
. oh wow . are you retired ?	i am 36 what about you ?
oh i have never heard of that .	nothing retired .
oh ok , i guess i do not know much on the music side .	i mostly like single player rpgs on my xbox
that sounds awfully familiar to me .	do you have any siblings ?
i football is the best . go alabama tide !	yes , i love to watch football
i have a brother and 3 sisters	do you play any sports ?
no we are not , i am more closer to my dogs honestly	no i want a family beyond my dogs
ok i will be sure too	what is your favorite type of dog breed ?
i already told that to you	i keep two canines as tamed animals
ok then . well its been nice chatting with you	they are and very loyal .
thought this was over , guess not	yes i am i want to go home
my favorite type of music is from the south	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am the head worker of a small store	what does sahm . country mean ?
my store sells everything you could possibly need !	what kind of store is it ?
there are weights for sure !	yes , i am doing that right now !
i am not sure ? how old are you ? ! ?	most definitely , you must be quite short then !
i have a very nice car ! it is a pathfinder by the company nissan !	that makes you in your 50s !
i got it this year ! i love it	but was it a toyota truck ?
i have not it sounds interesting	no , i am a country man
cool ! my only pet is a cow	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
yes my parents are , i work for them	no , i am a country man
i live line dancing to country music , that is all i listen too	what type of music do you like ? i enjoy anything except country !
cool ! i am always playing country in my big truck !	i also should have finished my degree by now , but it is taking a while .
lol chemistry seems like an interesting career .	cattle stations run different there than cattle farms in the us do .
cool , do you like to read ?	well you need a hobby , i read books , only when i have nothing to do
awesome , i hardly ever read .	it s my favorite book ever .
exhausted ! i was out clubbing all weekend . my legs are tired from grinding .	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
are you ok ? i know chemistry . i could make you an aspirin !	any other hobbies ? do you work or go to school ?
wow , good for him . i just work in a bookstore . . .	do you work ? i am in school .
i majored in chemistry so i already have enough knowledge for a lifetime .	yeah i work in health care .
no . all of the girls here wear orange . i hate orange .	no . . . just me . do you have a girlfriend , then ?
wow that is saucy . just one rule wear anything you want but orange things .	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
i am already deep in student loans , so i do not care !	what i would your favorite color ?
about 15k . i spend most of that on weekend clubs and raves though .	and all the loans for college for all those classes .
hey , i am in high school and i want to be a physical therapist .	hi , how are you ? i am great ! i am studying for school .
awesome ! i make all as in school so i could help you !	i am still in school .
yes , i love music ! so we can definitely rock out .	definitely rock ! do you have any kids ?
cool ! i am a homecoming queen that loves horses .	lol . i bet they love that
yes , i set a goal to actually run a k this year too !	yes ! you are beautiful and wonderful and the best person for your kids ! believe it !
i am sure you do ! i bet it is fun there !	it is pretty good exercise .
i just might do that ! i want to achieve my goal of running a k !	that is good exercise ! good for you .
i hope so ! after i get out of high school i want to run more !	that is a good ambition to have !
i understand because i have dogs too .	that is fine . maybe after we can bake some cookies !
i hate dogs but love to knit its kind of my passion	i have two dogs and one cat .
you are just scared of dying like me . that is why only love baking cookies .	people need religion . they need advice about how to live a good life .
sure . . . i am heading back home to the country so i can enter a bake sale .	what do you like to bake ?
i do not think we should be friends	i do like to bake . especially dog treats for my two small dogs .
i just wanted to stop talking to you really	true . maybe we could meet up when we are walking the dog sometime .
rules ? what rules are you talking about dude , no cookies for you	i will talk to anyone as long as they are nice .
i love cookies and bake sale but you are freaking me out .	i think that is a great attitude
hi there , how are you ?	hey , i am doing well , you ?
i teach in the summers ?	evening , i am well . yourself ?
does she own dogs like me ?	haha ! just do not let her hear you say that !
i always go to church	do you have children ? i have 2 .
i hold an outdoor class	i teach 7th grade science .
i teach walking and hiking mostly	i teach kindergarten at a school that is local to me . how about yourself ?
i do not really like labels	i am a personal trainer . how about you ?
do you have any pets ?	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
well . better now that i am in remission . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
so sorry to hear that . she is in my thoughts .	thank you and yeah she told me it is stressful
i have many kids and grandkids to keep me busy . how about you ?	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
how wonderful . life is precious spend as much time with them as possible .	i have 2 children and i am married . what do you do for fun ?
that sounds like fun . i enjoy making clothes for my family .	music totally makes life way easier . how many concerts do you go to a year ?
helping others makes life meaningful and i cherish it more now .	i would let you borrow mine but it is hard to part with .
too bad my cell phone broke . i would love to text you about my finances .	that would be cool . helping people is admirable .
great we should exchange emails !	does it provide a financially secure life ?
i just watched snoop and martha	that is so awesome ! makes me want a dog !
i love to eat vegetables and unique things	haha where are you from ?
awesome , i just came here from another country	those are great colors . do you watch tv ?
do you like adventure i do	like duh ! you said that . so you must be in the country ?
awesome does he like to go to germany	my father was a carsalesman . i turned out to be a very happy person .
maybe he can skydive to see a better view	i think its beautiful there
i want to but no highest i got was rollercoasters	nah , i wish i did . he was brilliant
hello i am sara who are you	cat can be cute , again did you ask them if they wanted to ?
i am 7 and i have powers that no one knows about	hello , blonde hair , blue eyes . and yourself ?
i can make the whole world pause ! freeze time	the only thing in the world ?
awe i love christmas you do not like it ?	i would not worry about it . as long as you are happy with your life and yourself
awe i am lonely a lot too i live in a orphanage	i love to travel . but i do not do enough of it unfortunately
do you have room for me ?	maybe , and i cant risk that
wow that is a huge house	i live in a 3 bedroom house .
you would not be scared of my super powers	i si live in a tiny house
not bad at all , rain got in the way though . how are you ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
ma . i was gonna finish a roof today . at least the cats will not miss me	good ! it is beautiful out this morning . how are you ?
ooh , if one of mine got out i would panic .	i do not work so i need something to keep me out of trouble !
i will say , hope you find her soon . so otherwise how is your day ?	ha it can be .
i am terrible at that game , give me a hammer not a paddle	it is going pretty good . yours ?
i build houses , sometimes i fix them , have my dads genes .	a game . what do you like ?
close enough i suppose , my dad put a hammer in my hand at 2 .	i get paid like 5 a day to test things .
i am angry . my parents keep making me go to school even though i hate it	hi , how are you ? i am great ! i am studying for school .
dose your bookstore sell p o box ? i know some do and i love it .	yeah that is part of school ! !
i do not have that many friends to play with anyways . how old are you ?	risky business all the time !
12 . i want to leave school as soon as i am old enough .	at 35 , you are middle age , did you know that ?
i stay away from other girls that are jealous of my long red hair and blue eyes	i love to play with my dogs !
oh cool . have you done anything else fun ?	those are great colors as well !
i do not bleach my hair . mine is natural and goes down to my waist	yeah i just dyed my hair blue and orange . . . pretty rad
hi there i am from america but my family moved down to south america	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i used to live in minnesota	that fine if you did not attend college . what is your occupation ?
uh i have no idea	i am very educated in the law . he was neither morally nor legally in the right !
ok sure i want to make computer like my dad used to	i want to be a lawyer
i had a friend named noah we were friends from ever since we met at 1	i agree but my dad says i have to work for it
ya not as much since we moved here	yes . we all live together
it is not so fun i have 2 friend who speak a different langues	yes . i went to a lot of different schools in 12 years
hmong and french my dad can translate because he speaks hmong and english	spanish , german , french , russian , and well english
sure . do you like to dance ?	sure i would love to
what was your favorite subject in school ?	oh , where did you go to school ?
i like math too . chemistry was my favorite subject in school .	i am currently studying asl at university . i could accomodate .
yeah , i have been for the last 5 years .	no i just graduated college , to busy working .
i live in chicago . what about you ?	i live in southern california
manhattan does have good pizza .	nyc right now . how about yourself ?
i am not a fan of sushi , i like mexican food .	i love sushi and my fave food is pizza . . what about you ?
does everyone in manhattan have good fashion ?	is it mexican ? i love mexican food .
hello . i am leigh . i am at a park i have never been to .	hi there ! i am a musician !
not sure . i was just exploring the city and found it . how old are you ?	yes , it is the theme for the night
i am 34 and i play many instruments . are you in band ?	how old are you ? i am 19 .
i play trombone , alto sax , baritone , and trumpet . you ?	i play in violin competitions so i am always practicing .
i do not run . i am constantly moving at the shelter i work at though .	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
no ! i will start violin as a new hobby , like my father .	i will try ! what do you do for fun ?
it is not for everyone . my dad made his living . i will try .	i teach people how to play the violin and viola ! how cool !
i did not go . who did you go with ?	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
oh cool . pole dancing ? well i am only 4 and enjoy coloring .	i enjoy hanging out with my best friend . . . . my dog
my mom is a pole dancer . my pet turtle is my best friend .	yea i am sure its not .
ya they live next door . and my dolls . i live a sheltered life .	yes . it can be sometimes . you have any interests ?
like in the clouds ? i do not really get to see sunlight .	what do you want to be when you grow up ?
were you a slave ? sometimes i have to food found in alleys .	that makes things feel warm and sunny for sure .
do you own fully automatic rifles then ?	i would hope not ! ll
would not that just be your personal view ?	no . sounds like a monster .
my guns have dolls . some of them would not be alive today if they did not .	yes . you are part of the problem .
hello , leon . my dogs and i are doing well .	hello , i am fine and you ?
oh no . i go to the gym a lot . the treadmill keeps my mind off things .	that is pretty sad . i am sorry . do you look like her ?
you are most welcome . the rowing machine is nice too .	that would be great ! do you like to workout ?
sadly , no . my dogs and i are in ohio .	i live in california , and you ?
oh no . i am moving soon as well . due to personal reasons .	do you move around a lot ? we do .
i have a springer spaniel and a lab . do you have pets ?	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
that is for sure . what kind of music ?	no , i do not have any pets .
great just got back from the gym i go twice a day every day .	i am doing well . . . a little worked up
bummer my fav exercised are the treadmill and rowing machine	i do not have that much time .
i have to go to the gym a lot because i eat a lot	i wish cause that is where i would be . i need me a vacation .
cool i eat a lot when i am bored . pets ?	you can once you get used to a different diet
i have 2 dogs . i should take them walking instead of eating .	my pets are two dogs .
i have been thinking of growing my hair long it is so short .	i bet that you would love to eat with me
yeah , that is a nice thought . do you have kids ?	well , i think that you should make a more challenging goal .
well , you will have more free time without them anyway .	yes i have one . she is two .
great thanks . what are you doing ?	i am well . busy day at school . how are you ?
hat game ? i love games as well , being 13 and all .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i have an xbox too . my older brother never will let me play though .	do you like to play video games ?
no , and i cry about it whilst i am on the bus for school . very sad .	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
they try to help me . they also help me with my math , i am terrible at that .	i do not have a lot of friends . what about you ?
i prefer soccer , but what music do you like ?	how do you feel about music ?
do you like soccer like i do ? i play every weekend .	i like all types of music .
nice , my big brother plays soccer with me sometimes .	i played a little bit of soccer in school , but was never really good at it
no i do not but i love dancing wildly to party music . do you own any pets ?	no , i admit i do not .
cool ! i own a dog too ! as well as a cat . do you have a favorite movie ?	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
that is cool , but i do not really like sci fi . do you read sci fi ?	no , more of a drama . one of the greatest films of all time .
what kind of supernatural romances ?	what kind ? i am an avid reader mostly sci fi and horror .
cool ! do you like parties ?	sci fi and fantasy stuff is pretty cool
awesome ! i love parties . i go wild at them .	i play the guitar ! do you have any pets ?
ok ok . what do you do besides play guitar ?	do you ever do illegal drugs ?
interesting ! is that hard to do ?	i like to pay guitar . you ?
i am well ! just got back from taking a walk .	hello i am fine and you ?
oh that sounds fun . i like dogs .	that is cool ! i also walk to get exercise .
i love hamburgers and french fries , but not soda . are you married ?	i like dogs ! and i like hiking .
i am married and we just bought a house .	no i just graduated college , to busy working .
yes it is nice . is kayaking dangerous ?	yes each family member owns a seperate house .
i see . what did you major in ?	in this one river by my house . sometime i get on an intertube an float instead .
that sounds like a lot of work .	wee i majored in psychology and it is a waste of time .
education is something that no one can ever take away .	i studied lots of stuff . it is a very applicable major .
good today . just cooking some mexican food . i cooking but am not very good .	hi ! doing great how about you ?
i inherited some money and bought a yacht to travel , i try different foods traveling	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
cheeseburgers are great , i try all kinds of foods everywhere i go , gotta love food .	i love to travel but i do not have much money right now . do you ?
i like travel logs and have been all over the world for years since high school	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
i need a job and will put my yacht up for rent . i could teach .	i am retired and love to travel quite often .
economics would be my first choice .	i teach it , i can help you
i would try . what hobbies do you have now that you are retired ?	i am going to be a teacher .
i like cooking shows . i should probably take some classes to improve .	i am retired and love to travel quite often .
yo whats up my man	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
you sound like you are trying to rush through your character	i teach english , how about you ?
not very ethical in my opinion	i am not very good at spanish , but i did take it in high school .
i play music and i rock	i speak french and spanish i want to teach my kids
my favorite word is trabajo	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i am going to study french next	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i also study ebonics and sh	spanish is actually already one of my languages
no you should do that	yes , i speak french , english and arabic so we get asked to different countries
i had surgery a week ago now i have stranger powers	hi , its going well and you ?
i am just a boy with a heart outside my body	where did you move to ?
had a brain transplant now i move objects with my mind	oh my . i am sure that it is .
your son sounds really awesome	he died in the star wars
wow congrats that is so cool	oh ? ! i will have to ask my son if that has happened yet
i bet , are you banking on a girl or boy ?	so you believe that money makes people happy ?
yeah nice job getting all those blue sentences in !	yes . do you have kids ? i have one
yes i am thanks so much !	oh yes . after i get some of these procedures done though .
oh my i just love country music ! do you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
solar panels rock ! i have actually met the taylor swift herself	oh , me too . no , i do not think so .
that is great . i manage a convenience store	i bet that is ! lucky you .
oh of course ! i drive a pathfinder , nissan , i need a new one	i agree , and its more convenient !
i did not know there was a twitter contest	i think there are . blogger ? lol
yes i am , i am 40 years old	i am not , how about you ?
are you a woman ? if hair is your thing yay you	ha ! how old are you , i am 20 .
oh i love frogs , and frog legs	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
good . watching the race . and you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh man . how did that happen ?	good afternoon , how are you ?
crazy . what do you do to stay happy ?	how does that happen ?
what ! i just need some good tacos and nascar .	i like to work an stay busy
the guys i work with make some great ones on fridays .	oh my , i love tacos .
i work in construction . started when i was 16 .	i am a construction worker , u ?
i think that mind you have can make you more money .	do you like mexican food ?
take you away from where ?	you should they have lots of ways to get around .
nice ! i just like to eat food haha .	i am a chef and i train dogs . . . not at the same time of course .
i try to eat healthy but it does not help when i can not cook well	that is nice . i am careful about eating . you seem to enjoy cooking .
i been across the globe for years eating food and now i am fat .	like a professional chef sort of thing ?
i will rent you my yacht for free for helping !	is that what you want to keep doing . i would love to do something with sports .
sure ! the last time i ran was when i was 13 which was like 10 years ago !	no idea . i wish i had a good plan .
i can cook for us after our run . i need the practice haha !	starting is good . keep it up ! how far do you usually run ?
how about a salad then ?	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
what is your favorite dressing ?	yep its the best dish in the world . so tasty and healthy
hello , i like wine and coffee .	i do not work myself . its more fun that way .
i coach little league and have five boys , i need both to help me deal with them .	are you married ? any kids ?
i am stuck with mine awhile , along with my mini van .	wow . and you have a young child . that is crazy . you miss him when you are gone ?
maybe you should find a second job .	hard work will pay off . tell me about yourself .
age is only a number . you are only as old as you allow yourself to be .	i was raised in a baseball house . converted my husband to a baseball fan !
it is never too late to learn . i am going to photography school .	yes i totally agree with you .
then it was not your calling , it is mine .	let me guess , you also love photography
no , you find your own dream .	never give up on your dreams ! sometimes they just take practice
i am doing well . about to go to my job at burger king .	hello i am fine and you ?
i am only 19 and work the grill . i just want to have fun with friends .	i do not have a job i dropped out
i want to move out . i am drug and booze free though .	i am not forced to work yet just school which i really dislike
i play music . i am going to be a rockstar .	playing games with my friends mostly . do you have a favorite color ?
scottish black metal . i play electric bag pipes .	music . i love all kinds of music .
yeah , i have videos of me on there . i invented them . they are sweet .	no , they are still out there . . . believe !
my name is cletus huckleberry . nice to meet you .	yeah , its a weird name .
i am well , how are you ?	i am doing great u
cool . so what do you do for fun ?	wonderful . do you have pets ? i am going to adopt a dog
i am a dj . really into eighties hip hop	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
nope no kids or pets . what about you ?	no kids either . 1 dog macie and 1 cat mr pippy toes .
that is a pretty big family . . must be hectic	that is a big household , we just have the dogs ! !
well at least he makes a lot of money lol	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
i like to dance and cook . you ?	i like to explore and draw
i am from boston massachusetts	i am from washington , dc .
what sports is he into ?	i am a pool expert and you ?
i like swimming . i coach locally .	i am a pool expert and you ?
a guy . where abouts are you ?	no , i am more of a computer geek .
i d love to see america . i hope to work there one day . i live in india .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
the humidity is lethal . texas gets pretty hot though doesn t it ?	it is very hot there in the summer !
wow . you sound cool . i code and listen to music . boring life .	yeah best pool on na continent
my programming skills will need some work , i m still studying .	no time for music either . gotta make money . too old to learn to code . boring .
my mother thinks i should just get married and stay in india .	yes , i do . and thanks ! what do you want to do when you grow up ?
very nice ! my boyfriend and i move into our new on next tuesday	hi how is your weekend going ?
do you like photography ? i do it as a side business .	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
i teach fourth graders , most nights i need a drink .	i have not been in school for awhile . i work all the time
do you have a girlfriend ? my boyfriend says i am always playing matchmaker .	yes with oils . i also speak french and english . what do you do for fun ?
what subject do you teach ? i teach history .	i do not work , i play in a band .
how many languages do you speak ? i am up to three .	i like to paint and take pictures
i speak those and french . do you like red or silver ?	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i am more partial to the muted tones of each color .	although i cannot see colors .
i am very well ! how are you ?	hey , i am good . you ?
i like listening to rap music	i am doing well , now that work is over . how are you ?
i understand . did you attend college ?	i cannot carry a tune in a bucket . do you work ?
i am a college student at a local university	i work part time as a music teacher . you ?
athletic training ! it is interesting	mine education is provided by rap artists .
wow ! wish i was your husband	aw , just wait for grand babies
i love pizza , favorite food	how about that ? ! kids are like food vacuums . married ?
ruff , hey ! ruff ruff . how are you ?	hello i am fine and you ?
nothing just singing and looking at my building blocks ! ruff	i really like canines
not yet ! but i will be soon ! but i have to give up chocolate .	maybe one day i could help you . . hang them up , that is . i am 6 3 !
wait . . . what ? i am confused . dogs ca not eat chocolate and i will be a dog soon .	yes , chocolate is a necessity for sure ! i have enjoyed our chat .
i love snow , i can roll in it ! dogs can not go to disney ruff	i agree ! would love to meet your dogs one day
maybe i can teach pluto abc song ! i want to be a dog just like him !	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you grow up ?
i do not know , what do you mean ? do you like chocolate ?	she is 5 . what is your favorite ice cream ? mine is chocolate for milk shakes !
good i live in ohio working as a doctor looking for a job in california	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
working from home would be nice . i am moving for my daughter , she is a prodigy .	what is your dream job ?
very nice i go to the park for that . do you like movies , my favorite is friday	you should treat yourself to a movie . i love going to the movies .
i wish i had more time for tv , what is your favorite show ?	i watch those all the time .
walking dead is mine too . any hobbies ?	i enjoy game of thrones , supernatural , the walking dead . you ?
chasing my daughter around , i like to paint when i can .	i like to work on cars its fun
yes they are but they are worth it . do you have kids ?	i have got a daughter who loves the things . you take care , alright ?
sure thing . what is your job ?	sure , tell me a little about yourself
wow , i am a dog walker . that is way cool	how about your interests , anything fun ?
yeah dogs are cool . i kayak too . do you have pets ?	yes , i have one dog , you ?
yeah . what do you like to do ?	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
wow you must be brave	reading a lot of books is my passion .
good idea , you sound like an amazing human	yeah , i read a lot a books about self improvement and determination .
makes sense , you would be a good role model . any children ?	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
yes , a new little one on the way too	no kids as of yet .
i am doing very fine this afternoon . how about you ?	hi am doing well . how about yourself ?
what are you going to school for ?	i am tired , from all this studying . how are you ?
will you be driving to or living on campus ?	i am a student with some small ambitions . what do you do for a living ?
what kind of music makes you feel good ?	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
i enjoy listening to classical music .	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
it depends on the particular sport .	i play sports , almost all of them . what about you ?
i am more concerned with my religion .	what sport do you play ?
i am in a jail for kids	good morning , how is your weather there
i got caught shoplifting and they locked me up	www that is no good .
i am still a kid . i want to go back to school	was it high school or college graduation ?
i get out next month . my mom is visiting tomorrow	haha , yeah , detention would be pretty lame
do you work ? what do you do ?	why does she want to leave ? do you want her to stay ?
do you like working in the army ?	i work for operation blessing and help kids
i guess that made your decision to enlist easy	oh , you in the military ?
i have not given much thought to what to do when i get out .	i work for operation blessing and help kids
great ! relaxing , taking a break for a few . i was playing a video game .	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
i was playing fall out . what do you look like ? i m blonde thin .	yes and other genres as well .
i hope your youth was full of music . i love music .	i am a grey eyed blonde . what do you look like ?
me too , as i wear my favorite band t shirt s for inspiration	i love music !
that s cute . my favorite band is fall out boy . yours ?	not really , i like silence alot , an video games .
i m in jersey . i m a runner . i have a marathon next weekend .	not at the moment , hopefully one day !
i bet . what are you making ? i have a great pb cookie recipe .	well i hope you get some good deals !
1c pb , 1c sugar , 1 egg . mix and roll . bake for 10 12 mins .	breakfast food . maybe waffles ? maybe cookies .
i am the same way with rap	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well .
i produce rap for people .	i have pets too , a dog and 2 cats ! you ?
sure while riding in my honda civic	yap , please save a pet if you can .
then we can celebrate with pizza	you should probably not . it is not good for the world .
right is it not the best ?	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
it is a great time of year	summer is the best season !
i play the piano sometimes	i like to listen to music
i do sometimes for fun	i mostly listen to smooth jazz and pop music
friend ye ? i hardly know ye . . .	yes ! that would be great !
where do you live ? i am in cali .	oh yes , well you can get online and chat i reckon
my ex left me too . cheated on me as well .	i am sorry . you married or single ?
well i am an atheist so that was not a problem for me . but it sucked .	is your dad crazy really or just frustrated ?
my ex left the kids . but some days i wish she had not . . .	yes ! it is hard because their dad is dead beat . what is you profession ?
do you like music ? i am in the industry .	yes ! it is hard because their dad is dead beat . what is you profession ?
i have a studio and i help people record music .	i am a freelance artist .
do you work in a nursing home ?	so i have heard . play any music while you do it ?
hi ! i am andy .	hi !
really that is sad . i work as an elementary teacher .	hi there , i am bob .
great . my father was a teacher too so	i thought you were still in elementary school
no he did not . he and i enjoyed time in the beach .	no , my dad taught me good music and good work ethics .
that is really amazing . i hope you do great . ahead .	i like to go to the beach .
i have a dog whom i love . your fish seems amazing .	no pets really , just a beta fish
i hope it will always be with you in rough times .	a pet bird ? i prefer dogs , thank you very much .
i agree . they are great sushi	i hope to be a teacher in the future . you teach ?
hi ! i do but i rarely have time to listen in between school and work .	i do . i am in a band . maybe you can rap for me ?
are you in school too ?	i am actually going to school as i want to be a nurse .
first year , i just moved here with my best friend for school too .	i also should have finished my degree by now , but it is taking a while .
so true ! so what do you do for a living ?	i agree , that is way i spend so much time at school lol
aside from nursing , i work at a bar to pay for school .	i am a nurse . what about you ?
of course , it is like a live sociology class too .	true enough . what are your other interests ?
i definitely agree ! good perspective . why do you not like mining ?	agreed ! so , are you studying in college ?
i am great , i hope you are doing well . where are you from ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i see . have you lived there for a long time ? we just recently bought a home	i am from boston ma
that is very nice . life must be very relaxing outside the cities . do you have children ?	well , we have bought the house she grew up in , and she stays home with the kids .
i do not have any pets , but i may be interested in one	i have 3 big dogs , no kids .
i do not have any special interest in sports , do you have any favorite sports ?	basketball and cross country right now but they are always doing some kind of sport
i see , do you live in united states or canada ? i heard hockey is very popular there .	i used to love hockey . i do not watch it anymore . for some reason
i live in canada , i moved here very recently . what do you do for a living ?	yea me neither , since i moved to canada .
i am good . just got back from some volunteering . how are you doing ?	hello i am fine and you ?
i am an old retired guy , so i might be doing something wrong !	hey there ! pretty good so far . you ?
that sounds like a nice time . i like to try to be active myself . i love walks .	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
i used to be a gym teacher so i used to be quite fit !	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
definitely ! although now that i am retired i find that i love eating cheeseburgers . . .	which school do you teach at ?
yup . a cheeseburger and a war documentary are my idea of a good saturday	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
that cant hurt either ! what else do you like to do ?	it sure can lift your spirits .
that is just great . we need more educators like you in the system .	teaches kids how to do stuff around the house . cook , clean , pay bills , sew
i go to school . hate it ! will you be my friend ?	i study to be a teacher
oh , i am not ! i am only 12 , though . will they like me ?	ha ! that would make them pay attention to me for sure !
i do not like school at all . and gym is the worst !	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
the boys pull my waist length red hair . that hurts !	that is great for exercise !
no . i just cry out my blue eyes ! they all make fun of me .	yes ! last kid i taught red was blue and blue was red . so funny !
okay , thanks ! what do you like to do ?	well , my dogs are more than i can handle to be honest .
better than kids , that is for sure !	i walk my dogs and go to pet stores to play with dogs
especially when you are 12 ! how old are you ?	yeah that is part of school ! !
wee ! i have koi fish that the same color as my orange dress .	no i do not . i would love to learn .
great . i like hiking and need a new boyfriend as of yesterday .	i teach english , how about you ?
he ate my fish that matched the color of my dress . bummer !	omg i split up a year ago . . . no idea why he would leave me , you know
oh , i could tell you stories . i turned 18 yesterday . you sing ?	i think it happened . do you not ?
great ! you know any hiking songs ?	yes ! i love to sing . what genre do you like to sing ?
that will do ! i like to hike and sing and wear the color orange .	i just sang that in my head . i love singing .
those are not hobbies . they are my life work . you work ?	the sunsets were beautiful , the sky and the water would just glow this perfect shade of orange
wow ! you know any spanish ? what is amarillo in spanish ?	i teach literature at the local college .
not to bad , what about you	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
good stuff , what you do for living	fine , what is your qualification ?
cool , i am in the army	what are you in school for
wow , well thank for serving soldier	well there is nothing wrong with that
i am from canada , where do you live	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
okay , go boston haha , fav food ?	i am in new york . i have always wanted to go to quebec , canada though .
sounds pretty yummy , did you go to college	yes ginseng root and chia make good tea
i did not even make it pass highschool	was it high school or college graduation ?
hi there , yes i love horses and so does barnaby my german shepherd .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
yeah , barnaby is a keeper and a great scorpion spotter . i hate scorpions .	aw that is nice . i never had a dog . i bet its awesome .
barnaby found one in my dad old nascar cars right before i sat down .	believe me , they like it .
only when we visit dad they come out . what do you do ?	yeah . that could be a disaster .
that sounds cool , better than working for the us postal service .	training horses lol . remember ? you ?
now that is different . i paint in my spare time to stay sane .	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
they make awesome pictures . i love colors but strangely my favorite is grey !	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
yes it does , client have me painting fuschia and other wild colors weekly .	i definitely love the colors , yes .
i am not in college , i graduated with a doctorate degree	nope , full time school . and you ?
farthest i have ever been away from home was at the park	no , maybe i will someday , you ?
going to the park is my favorite hobby . or going to my daughters piano concerts	i like to read books . you ?
what kind of stuff do you cook ?	i like to sing , and cook . what do you have for hobbies .
i have never heard of it .	carribean dish . i love grill meat and pasta outside . you cook ?
sounds delicious , i should try it sometime	pasta or rice is best in my opinion
yes i am but i would like a new job soon	i do not currently have a job . i am looking though .
thank you , i am definitely looking	are you trying to find a full time job ?
hello , i am doing very well thank you . i just came back from a walk .	hello , i am well . where do you live ?
i love photography , i am always photographing my food .	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
that is nice , do you drink soda and eat fast food ?	oh wow ! you know , i dabble in photography ; maybe you can introduce us sometime .
i like kids , i would love to have a large family .	i like veggie but prefer soda all day . you cook ?
how sweet ! more teachers need to have that attitude .	you take them to class with you ?
at the same time ? does that work very well ?	i speak french and spanish i want to teach my kids
i have heard it is best to learn when you are little .	yes but i do some of it as well .
that is very pretty . like christmas all year long .	whats your favorite color then ?
no i do not like hummus . i am locked up .	mmmm yes its very delicious
i am using the library at the juvenile detention center .	no not at all it is very relaxing .
i am a great swimmer . what is the plan ?	yes , do you ?
i am scheduled out in a month , but if the sooner the better .	morsure ! would love to do that
ok , what channel does it come on ?	will you cook for me ?
i am ready to blow this popsicle stand . lets do this . gotcha , banana .	correct . . it will go forever . . i know
what ? you said you would help me , what kind of low life are you ?	where are you from ? pa here .
great how are you ? i went to the park today .	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
what center are you at ? i am work at a center as a doc .	we should watch game together .
oh , wow . that is interesting . i have a daughter that is smart .	i work as a file clerk for a hospital . i would not be much help .
oh ! that is one of the reasons i am looking for a new center to work at .	sounds a bit crazy , and hard on a child
i need to find a place for my daughter to go to school .	i need a quite place after working with kids . . . so no .
changing subject , what is your favorite movie ? mine is friday .	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
where does your mom live ?	comedies are my favorite movies .
we live in nebraska . so do you get to leave the detention center ?	i am in texas actually !
great , just ate pizza my favorite . . and you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am not sure i have hard that . . what is it	hi how are you doing tonight i am fine thank you .
oh i would like to try that time . . maybe share with charlie , my dog	mmm i think its called china bowl or something like that .
a pitbull . . i love pits . do u have pets	you know the dog . . . . i wo not say the name . . .
oh that is too bad ! i am from chicago	i have two pitbulls named max and charlie !
cold and windy now . . not too great	chicago right now i enjoy it
that sounds great right now , not ready for winter !	its hot as hades !
i do not enjoy the driving in my honda civic	i like it but not in the winter
hi . good . just got in from feeding the horses . how are you doing ?	i am well ! i am actually coming by the area where you live !
my horse is called buttercup . we have six in all . do you have pets ?	i am doing well . how about yourself ?
yeah . are you from the city ? i dream of moving from this tiny town .	i do not have any animals , but i like them . what is your favorite animal ?
yeah . maybe i can get my law degree . what kind of car ?	does it pay well ? i worry about money and want a good career .
me too . my dad wants me to raise horses like he has and his dad .	i get a self driving car as soon as their ready
you must like taylor swift . that is cool . do you have any hobbies ?	she is very pretty . do you date ?
where do you work ? i am still in high school	i want to be a lawyer
grades have to be good for law school . so how is your job ?	well hopefully you keep working hard , get good grades and transfer .
nothing , too young male and been very i will , too .	i am a freelance artist .
oh , that is not good for your health .	do you have a prosthetic then ?
wow , and i thought having a transplant for my heart that was outside my body was bad !	oh i am sorry about that .
do you believe in physic abilities like moving objects in same room ?	i know ! let us continue to pray .
that has been happening to me since my surgery .	no , it never crossed my mind . that could give me more free time .
you have my permission . lose weight and win your wife back .	how can i do that i will post it on facebook !
i am following your facebook page to see good results .	will you tell her that you love her ?
okay , and you can follow mine if you want .	are you going to have the surgery ?
i am good and how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
that sounds yummy . i want some brownies	good thank you , how are you doing today ? any special plans ?
i do not knit .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i think i am more afraid of dying alone .	no , but it is my hobby and the hobby of all the people i hang with .
i love nature ! i am going camping tomorrow night	being outside enjoying nature is a passion of mine .
its just starting to cool off here .	i think it would be cold there too misery .
i camp out in the woods . too sandy to camp at the beach	on the beach , man , right on the beach but with mom and dad
maybe one day i will camp on the beach	i love to hike in the woods . i love nature . i hate the beach though .
i am sorry , both those things suck .	do any of those affairs involve saving animals ?
you would love the shipyard i work in then .	do any of those affairs involve saving animals ?
sure , how many of those mushrooms have you eaten ?	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
ok . i always donate some of my salary to charity .	both good guesses . 23 actually . i rescue them .
congratulations , how are you enjoying retirement ?	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
you do not like children ? i also volunteer at a bunny rescue .	i am in the navy . you have a lot on your hands !
was he spiderman ? that would creep me out .	ha ! did he jump out and scare you ?
i believe you , not spiderman but superman .	i just know of it . he scares me .
just came back from a visit in the city , how about you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
do you have any hobbies ? i play a couple instruments and i am a piano teacher .	great , i love playing the violin . what do you do ?
violin , oh my gosh ! my father was a pro violin player and he showed me a lot !	almost everything i need is located in an area where i can walk around
yeah i actually play the violin , guitar , drums and piano .	currently no , i used to play the violin . what are you good at ?
thank you . not as talented as my father , but i try !	i teach people how to play the violin and viola ! how cool !
sorry i gotta go soon , the people at the homeless shelter are waiting for me .	i agree ! do you listen to any music ?
i am a weekly volunteer , i just love helping people ! anyways i gotta go , bye !	i do but not professionally just for fun .
hello i am good , how about you	hey , i am doing pretty well , you ?
i am moving in with mine next week	hello i am fine and you ?
what can you tell me about yourself	i do photography , what do you do ?
i like the colors red and silver	my hobbies consist of practicing my english spanish and going for hikes .
i teach at an elementary school	i love to take pictures of things
i am fluent in french	i taught myself french and i learned spanish in high school
no i would like to though	i do want to move to spain , study there and then teach english there afterwards though .
how was it over there ?	never , where have been other than paris ?
hi how are you doing ? i am okay no i wish i could .	are you kidding ? of course not .
i am so sorry to hear that i believe your powers are from the lord .	if you say so . i could not do that .
i tend to watch large amounts of t . v . on free times .	the whole experience annoys me . do you watch tv ?
yes i am a fan and love zombie and vampire movies too	yes i watched that one three times because it was so funny .
what super powers did you awake with ?	i also love movie time . do you ?
ok that is cool and i like going to the gym most days .	no , it never crossed my mind . that could give me more free time .
i have a job inside my apartment i like working home .	i like to fish and swim .
i am good , preparing for my new job . you ?	hey , i am doing well , you ?
i could coach you in how to do that if you want	good anyways how are you tonight ?
i am a life coach so we could discuss	do you run marathons ? i am interested in doing one myself .
oh wow interesting . i move my body by running	yea , i ponder that as well , i think i might have to move .
you should ! exercise and clean eating are so important	are you into excercise i run every morning
i like to run marathons just like my parents did	i am a fitness buff , love weight lifting and marathons
i admired them and their athleticism very much	i agree but my dad says i have to work for it
i follow the paleo diet . you ?	i love food , like a lot i think of food all the time .
hi there . i am invincible who could probably live forever	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well .
yes . and i have lived for 100 years !	finally yes , i totally am .
well . i think my longevity is due to wine drinking and dancing under the moonlight	it is blue , what do you do for a living ?
no , but i am so old , i remember the time before a television .	no , no . not that famous yet .
yes ! i am very strong for a 100 year old !	i drink water most of the time .
radios , not so much . i remember the time radios shows were the norm !	yes , never a dull moment !
red wine is indeed delicious , but they stain your teeth !	yes it is my favorite thing to do ! what other hobbies do you have ?
i am tired . i played all day long .	hello , i am great what about you ?
i played with my toys in my room .	i have a little dog , you ?
yes . i like dogs . what kind are they ?	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
my best friend has a cat . she lives next door to me .	i love dogs , i have two of them .
yes . we play with our dolls together . how old are you ?	no , i do not like cats at all . sorry .
i am only four years old . i do not like my babysitter .	yep . and we have a beautiful 3 year old daughter . you ?
she gets mad at me when i do not clean my room .	that is true . what is your mom like ?
coffee is my passion , so yes !	i prefer chocolate and milk
not at all . i do not drink any type of alcohol .	do you have any children ? are you married ?
no , i am kinda a quiet family man . my wife and kids rock .	you could ride your moped to the ice cream store .
three . it is all fun and games until someone tries to steal my chocolate ice cream .	three boys , ages three , seven , and nine
much healthier . do you work ? i own a plumbing business .	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
i like to read and play video games . i mostly just spend time with my family .	i like to paint and make some sculptures .
mostly fiction and biographies . i like those two genres the best .	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
i have not . however , it does sound interesting . i will look for it .	i read to my kids each night they love it .
hey . . . i am a dog person , i have two	yes , i have one dog , you ?
wow ! ! ! that is a lot lol	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
my weakness is eating when i am bored	really ? even as a pet ?
i am a summer girl	summer is my favorite season
cool what did you win for ?	i even won an olympic medal in speed walking . was not enough retire !
wow ! ! i just run on my treadmill lol	i came in 6th in the 100 meter . do you interested in any sport ?
yes and i love the rower machine	i ran the mile under 4 minutes once it was awesome
lol nursery r h y m e s	lol ! yes , i can see it !
that is a cool idea . how are you today ?	that is a fun age i think .
i just got back from school , not a big fan of it though .	hi good and you ?
i have never considered it . maybe it would help me make some more friends .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
i will definitely keep the in mind if i join .	it would be bad to be in the army and not be able to shoot .
do you have any bunnies ?	of course might as well pay family members .
wow ! you have quite the appetite .	not pets . i would probably eat them up .
i am a receptionist at a dentist office	i am employed . i would with food .
i am worn out from work today . how are you ?	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
i used to run . i work at a convenience store .	going fine . . how bt urs ?
what do you want to do ?	what do you study ? i already graduated .
that sounds like a good job . i am the manager at the store that i work at .	you might try turning it into a career .
great ! do you like taylor swift ? i met her once .	absolutely . you sound like an ambitious person .
i have her latest album in my car . i have a nissan .	yeah she isn t so great . not like madonna at all .
what kind of car do you want ?	cool , yeah . gonna be graduating soon .
hello miss ! i m ben and i m grounded for not picking up my toys	hi . what do you do for fun ?
when mommy orders it . what do you like on your pizza ?	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
i like the red stuff underneath the cheese ! how old are you ?	i like pizza and ice cream .
is that where my parents pick up the food ?	i still live at home . i am nineteen .
do you have any pets ?	its a place where you buy food and other items .
i have a turtle . i named him leo	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
my best friend got it for me . he lives across he street	they said it was wild .
i like what barney sings !	music . i love all kinds of music .
daddy listens to them all the time !	i am not sure i have a favorite song . do you ?
i recently broke my arm so i am not working	hello where do you work at ?
i blame my skateboarding friends	oh no , i am so sorry to hear that . i am sure you are a good guy .
yes , you should retire and learn to knit	yes , i am in high school
good advise , thank you for that	are you married ? do you have kids ?
i try to avoid working at all	i work in education .
i just want to live free	is it a money issue ?
it could happen one day	i have lots of money , for no reason , but nothing makes me happy
anything is possible right ?	no , i am not . are you ?
what is computer programming , i am new to the united states .	what job is that ?
cool , i was born in somalia , but my aunt helped me escape .	i have been programming , getting some practice in after class .
i had to get away , i was forced to marry young , but now i am happy	i should try swimming , lol no balls in it !
no , i had to escape him . it was not fun times .	yes i did . i wanted to marry again .
thank you , do you do anything in your free time ?	i am sorry , i do not understand your question statement .
death metal , is that the music you get whip lash from ?	yes , i listen to gospel music and slow jams .
swimming is fun ! have you met any olympians ?	ha yes . what other hobbies do you have ?
i am tired from milking the cows .	hello ! i am good and you ?
100 ? ! that is older then my dad ! would you make your son milk cows ?	oh gross , i am not into that . i guess it works for some people . . . not for me though .
i would rather be coloring in my books ! do you like sports ?	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
i like to watch hockey with my dad . do you have any kids ?	i am not much of a baseball fan
wow ! i can not even count that high ! i have a pet though . do you ?	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
dad got me a german sheperd to help on the farm . where do you live ?	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
france is a long ways away ! will you drive there ?	i live in southern california
do they let people as old as you on planes , mister ?	oh ! yep it would be a long drive for you .
i recently quit my job , moved in to monastery to pursue my spirituality .	hi there . i work as a yoga instructor . what about you ?
i appreciate that . are you a spiritual person , may i ask ?	i work as a yoga instructor . do you have any favorite musician ?
you are amazing . thank you for sharing .	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
what is it that you do ?	i am also a buddhist
peace be with you as you embark on your new journey	i was not raised religious , but buddhism sounds interesting .
live in he wilderness of alaska now , we do not have many life coaches here .	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
i agree fully . do you believe in meditation ? my meditation time has brought me much peace	people need religion . they need advice about how to live a good life .
good for you ! i have never ran a marathon , but i certainly admire your determination !	that is awesome ! i was taught yoga and buddhism from a young age
i am good ! counting the days till i can move out . and you ?	hello , i am well . where do you live ?
my job at burger king is taking away all of my video game time .	i love to play it , but that could be because its part of my job too .
my coworkers are always complaining i burn the burgers . you are not my parents !	i work at a fast food restaurant .
do you drink or do drugs ?	i am sorry to hear that . no my parents are not with me .
ok good . but why dye your hair ? that is , like , drugs for your hair .	yes but i do some of it as well .
blue ! ? blue ! ? i hate blue ! ree ! ! !	red . but you probably hate red .
black , like my soul . i am very depressed from working at burger king .	red . but you probably hate red .
blond is perfectly fine . you should just keep it like that .	black is a good one . mine is blue . do you eat out a lot ?
okay . i go to school . i like disney world .	i am good . how about oyu
do you like playing on the swings at the playground ?	disney . yeah , that would be nice
i am nine years old . how old are you ?	how old are you ? i am 19 .
what grade do you teach ? i am in third . do you like mickey mouse ?	i am in third grade you
i bet you would love disney world . do you ever go ?	do you like disney movies ? i love them
every year . i am lucky . would you like to go with me ?	no but i would love to go !
my dad will take you . he has lot of money . where are your vacations ?	i would have to okay it with my mom and dad first .
i will ask my dad . do you play video games ? i like them .	org i love disney !
hi . i am doing great . thanks for asking . and you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
cool . i volunteer at various places at the moment	hi i am doing pretty good . how about you ?
church , high school tutoring , publishing houses	just a local one in state .
wow . how many cats do you have ?	well , i love cats , so i am helping out at the sanctuary .
nice . what do you think of someone growing up poor ?	2 cats actually . 1 big one and one little one
well i asked because i grew up poor during several periods	haha i grew up in a strict atmosphere . as a child
yes , it is well . enough about me . how about your favorite past times ?	well it is better than most people . hopefully you make good money
ok . what about favorite foods ? cheeseburgers ?	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
oh not much , my name is heather and just looking to chat with people	hello , what are you up to ?
what is your name and do you have any hobbies ?	are you married ? any kids ?
ha , ha that is funny my husband was homecoming king in high school	i am an author , i love it
i like books . not much time now that i am going to have a baby	nope i am in high school .
i got my degree from college , i have been married for 3 years	well , congrats on graduation ! i bet you felt pretty on your graduation day . i want that
so how old are you kris ?	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
do not be so eager to grow up its not as fun as you may think	i am 27 , how old are you ?
i am 27 and wish i was 17 again ha ha	i believe you could love whatever you set your heart to 3
hi ! doing great . where are you from ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i live in hawaii and i work from home .	i am from cali , have you ever been ?
it is . i love it here . i have 2 dogs they love it here too .	no , i do not have any pets .
awesome ! will you dress them up for halloween ?	i love dogs , i have two of them .
we are gonna watch a bunch of horror movies . have you seen the new it ?	yes ! that would be great !
horror movies are my favorite !	no , more of a drama . one of the greatest films of all time .
my thoughts exactly . nice chatting , have a great day !	yes , i love movies . especially comedy , horror , and fantasy . you ?
i am a school teacher , who about you ?	well , i am a teacher .
i bet that is hard work	i am a teacher and a mom .
true do you have any hobbies outside of the farm ?	outdoor painting ? yes that would be awful
i love photography and foreign language	well there is beautiful scenery here , so i often go out and draw landscapes . you ?
they are very simple but enjoyable	i love to take pictures of things
unfortunately no , do you have any ?	no , no pets . do you have any ?
now that is unusual but interesting .	no pets , just me i do teach kids in 8th grade
i am doing well how about you ?	hi , i am good . what about you ?
aww congratulations . it must be exciting .	hello i am great , just watching tv . how are you
ow wow now that will be hard task	aww . i always thought it would be cool to have kids .
no i sadly do not . i never been one to hold a steady relationship	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
and now you are having triplets . now that will be a huge family	oh okay , congratulations on being remarried
are you a teacher ? or work in administration ?	we both sound busy . having more money for work we do would help
i am self employed . what subject do you teach	i work as a teacher so the money is not much , but i like it .
that is cool . my mother is actually the chair of and education department	i work as a teacher so the money is not much , but i like it .
good , studying the lsat today . how about you ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
really ? i am wanting to be an attorney . where are you from	i am going to be a lawyer .
i used to live in nm ! i lived in a small town outside abq .	i am in cali , have you ever been ?
they are . we had horses , do you ride ?	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
tea i am more of a coffee gal , have to study late .	we work so much ! i am an attorney . you ?
i hope , have to get good scores first . how is your museum ?	i work in a firm as a lawyer .
neat . i grew up with horses , is there anything about horses there ?	i currently work for a museum .
it is ok . i prefer rock	yes , that is my favorite genre of music
that is cool . are you famous ?	where did you go to high school ?
only at my high school . i just won homecoming queen actually	no , no . not that famous yet .
it is gorgeous ! what do you do for fun ?	yes , what about your goals ?
i run all the time . i want to run a 10k one day .	i went to high school i n boston
yes i am . but i want to be a physical therapist when i am an adult	no i am in high school . do you understand your feelings ?
you should go for it !	i would be in a rock band
i am great . third grade is tiring though even though i do not have any responsibilities .	i am well . busy day at school . how are you ?
i am hermit . i am like mickey mouse without disney land .	i am sorry . that is no fun . you should get a dog !
so i guess your name is not neptune .	no it is just for fun . sometimes we compete in disney .
i do not video games because i am always at the playground with all my classmates	haha . this whole thing is hilarious .
no . i have played halo it is fun .	i have not played that but will have to check it out
robots may take over the world	super mario for the wii actually its my favorite .
i wish there was two of me so i could be double trouble .	i do not , but i do play video games related to it .
i am good ! grading papers all day , you ?	good and how about yours ?
what are you recording ? that sounds interesting .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
do you like the band up ? i saw them once .	i do not think i could be a teacher or sing
i cannot wait to go to the beach on vaca this year .	i need to keep up with the latest music because i want to be a teacher .
i try to go every year with my parents . they were teachers too .	i have been there . it is pretty nice
yeah , i followed in their footsteps .	i teach in spend time with family
sometimes . the little kids i teach always make or a good story .	i agree . particularly if the band i am in is to find its big break .
what else do you enjoy ?	i agree . particularly if the band i am in is to find its big break .
hi , i am in nevada . i am listening to country music .	good morning , how is your weather there
yes we do , i am a store manager and we sell really good tacos .	yes i drive around all the time
taylor swift walked into my store the other day ! it was awesome !	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
really ? i cut my hair like hers short and brown .	you mean , she left you again ? ! !
i like metal too but the old school , like lyda ford .	i really like country . do you have any pets ?
oh man you hit the spot ! i play it loud in my nissan pathfinder .	what was her favorite ? or yours ?
california knows how to party !	i like newer stuff like taylor swift .
i am more like john 316 and cypress hill .	keep ya head up by tupac actually
i am good and no i like country	hi ! i am doing okay . you ?
cool ! i have not traveled much since my transplant	i live in maryland but was born in india
i am yes , when i was born my heart was on the outside	no i am ok with not doing it
it was crazy growing up i could not play like most boys	technology might find an answer to it
i bet , i learned to do magic like moving things with my mind	that is nice . i had a bad childhood .
yes i enjoy swimming a lot	i do not but maybe i should give it a try
thank you for the offer , i could use some pointers	i guess i can try that .
i agree with you ! i like helping at animal shelters	thank you . maybe we can do it again sometime .
my parents were killed by a clown when i was three . i was then adopted	that is pretty cool i was only 5
it is alright . i am more of a pop fan myself	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
no . now i get scared whenever i see one	well he was quite the entertainer , i hear .
i recently got a job ! now i work at a gas station	that is funny , yes , you right we always have going to the park
not really . but my adopted dad likes them	no , i think they are out of style
what industry do you work in ?	everyone at my job has been talking about it
i am single . though my dad keeps setting me up on blind dates	yes i love this industry
cool . what do you make ?	i know . its for you silly clown .
i love the internet it makes me think i can over take the world	why , seems like a waste of time to me .
yes i use to paint for job . but now i am a maid or housekeeper	oh , i mostly draw and paint for fun . i do not expect to go anywhere with it
at 56 i am looking forward to retirement	i think it would be easy to feel taken advantage of
i see just about everything no blood though .	no , that is just crazy .
i may visit my grown children since they never visit me .	nothing retired .
as a older woman i wish i could have plastic surgery .	yes , there are crazy people everywhere . they will touch you .
i use to be wrinkle free but the years of time are not kind	yes i do . where are you located ?
yes but it is hard to look at sagging skin and eyes	the world does have endless things to paint or draw
sure ! i would love to ! what is it ?	hey ! yes , tell me something about you .
wow . my boyfriend would go crazy . we just moved into a house .	oh , wrong kind of twin . youre the non identical kind . got it .
nice . i enjoy taking walks around my neighbor hood .	i bet that is ! lucky you .
yeah . i get busy too . all i ever eat is hamburgers and french fries	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
yah bi i never drink any soda . i do not like it	lol . you would be on a healthy dehydrated food diet .
oh ok . good for you then !	ouch ! i think i might have had too much to drink . lol
sure ! i would love that !	we should all go together sometime !
hi ! well , i usually like to take care of my looks hair , nail , tanning .	i like watching movies and tv
i do not have one yet , i am thinking about college . what about you ?	i am a freelance artist .
tell me about the interesting one . what is it like ?	does it pay well ? i worry about money and want a good career .
wow , i have never met an actor ! you must be very fit .	yea , i like to keep things interesting .
well , i seem to always be on a diet . . . even though i love food . . .	well , that is still something to be very proud of !
i want to look my best . exercising alone does not seem to cut it .	and not get fat of course ! !
not really . school was so boring , and they forced us to read boring stuff .	i love to read , what about you ?
what do you read ? my sister says fantasy novels are the best .	but the cost of school is so high .
hello , how are you ? i am well . i like to shop for shoes and watches .	not much how are you today ?
what do you do ? i am work for a watch dealer .	i do not work myself . its more fun that way .
wonderful ! yeah , however , my family does not support my choice of career .	what do you do for a living ? i am a car salesman .
i am not sure why they do not . do you like cars ?	yes families always stick together .
lovely truck ! i dream of owning a rolls royce ghost one day .	do you have a car ? i have a black ford f150 truck . i love it !
i enjoy both . i like all kinds of music .	i love music as well !
there are some great country music songs out at the moment . i prefer old stuff .	country music is another hobby of mine .
i mostly just take care of my children . nice meeting you . goodnight .	i like to watch old movies
hello , you have any hobbies ?	hello ho ware you today
awesome i like listening to it while i play tennis .	no i am strictly into music . music my life
oh , i see that a lot in my insurance office .	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
since i was fired i found a job in insurance .	i work and go to school , i travel a lot for work .
it is ok , but my dad made a ton before he passed away .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
it is ok , i was pretty young when it happened .	well i hope he was safe on the job .
i normally get tanned from playing softball which i love .	no but i like it .
oh , deal i love playing sports .	i never played any sports .
hi there . how are you tonight ?	hello to you ! do you have any dogs ? you love winter ?
you like skiing ? i love skiing . i love anything to with winter actually .	hi , i am doing very well ! you ?
i spend my extra money on hats . what do you buy ?	do you travel very much with so many pets ?
i own over 1000 hats . how much britney do you own ?	no , not famous . are you famous ?
do you protect them ? my cats would have a ball tearing that up .	400 she must spend everything she has on shoes
so what is your greatest weakness ? mine is vanilla ice cream .	oh , so no ice cream for you then . haha
chocolate waffles with vanilla ice cream ! yum ! !	i love chocolate ice cream . you .
i got over diets after the olympics .	i love chocolate ice cream . you .
hello , my name if bebe a mom of 4	nice , i have two dogs !
yes every now and then .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i love watching baseball or american football	i play sports and go fishin gon my boat
i am a african american woman the age of 30	i am not a big sports fan , but i do love cooking
so when you say open meaning exactly what ?	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
oh okay so are you bisexual or completely gay ?	yeah we have been in a relationship for two years now i think its time .
oh okay well that is good you open about it some people are not	yes , please help me , by boyfriend is awful . he wants an open relationship
that is apart of being true to yourself	well , if it makes you happy , do not be embarrassed
hello ! i am addicted to the internet and play roleplaying games all day	still there ?
really ? because working from home is my dream	there are so many things you can do when you work at home .
i did go to school to be a vet but i did not like it	when i graduate i want to be an engineer
yeah , my hair is purple because i dye it every 3 months	i love animals . i wish i could have a lot
interesting ! speaking of red , when i see blood i faint	i have always like purple things . what color do you like ?
lucky man , i hope to be someday	i hear you . but you can turn it around ! its all in your mentality !
of course ! girls are just as smart !	i would like to become an engineer .
absolutely ! could not agree more !	you seem to be very smart .
horses are great i am george i farm bees	i do not , do you ?
i did bu i am not close to my family	yes . my family owns one and i work on it .
my wife is a model . i met her in italy . she wants to be a lawyer too .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
no not yet she studies for the lsat . what is your favorite food ? mine is papaya	yes . she is quite established .
single irish lawyer . nice . anything else on your mind ?	i do not like hard boiled eggs .
good luck with moving and your studies	lol . half my family is in italy . we are italian .
thanks just livin the dream of a humble bee keeping celebrity husband	i wish you good luck .
my wife is an italian super model	it has its days , but i think it is so worth it !
i am not good at dancing too big and clumsy . i can pet the bunnies though .	practice all you can and it will pay off one day !
i have a job in the shipyard when i am not volunteering to pet the bunnies .	do any of those affairs involve saving animals ?
nope . did yours save you when you were forced to marry someone ?	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
i donate my money from the shipyard to the bunny rescue . they let me pet the bunnies .	did the establishment pursue legal action , or simply ask you to pay ?
i like navy blue . it is my favorite color even though bunnies are not ever blue .	besides dancing what do you like to do ?
lenny will not let me have a bunny .	sometimes i donate time or money and of course walking the dogs .
one day i will haves me a farm and get to tend the bunnies .	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
yes . i will love and pet and hug them .	i love animals ! i enjoy going to volunteer with them .
olympian gold medalist here what is up !	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
gymnastics for about 4 hours a day great work out .	i mainly go to the gym and play racquetball . what about you ?
great whats your favorite color ? mine is yellow	i am 27 , how old are you ?
like pizza ! i like italian food oh garlic bread .	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
i do not have toys but i do workout .	i do not ! do you ?
i do not have friends my only love is for the garlic bread .	i like going to the gym .
and gym membership cant forget the gym membership .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
hello , i am george , i am doing well . how are you ?	hi ! ! ! i am wonderful . and yourself ?
i do ! what kind do you like ?	yes i like pop . do you ?
oh that is too bad . i am not close to any of my family either .	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
i like isolation , which is why i became a bee farmer .	i always sing songs very loudly .
my wife is the bill payer . as an italian super model she makes the big money .	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
i love music ! what is your favorite food ? mine is papaya .	yes i love all genres . what do you like
oh both good choices !	yes , crabs are so good , and lobster !
i do like it a lot , especially shrimp !	yes , crabs are so good , and lobster !
hey ! good , how are you	hello , i am good tonight , i am just with my cats
aww nice , i work in few hours . i work in construction . . love building houses	hi i am good and you ?
i live in australia , yourself ?	i do not like cats they have something weird about them
oh that is bad . . why ? do you have any pet ?	oh , yeah , probably not many cats there
i have five cats . . they are so special !	no , i do not like cats at all . sorry .
nah . . love them all ! my father loved pets . . i learnt all bout cats from him	yes , i have 3 cats and they are so adorable
they are inside , they are part of he family	cats are neat freaks too though , are not they ?
hi . i am doing well , plotting to take over the world .	hi , its going well and you ?
my kids do not visit , so i have a lot of time on my hands , after work .	nice ! ! ! nothing like a good book !
mine are too . i am 56 .	well , all the children are grown except 1 14 yr old still at home .
no , i used too when i was younger and a painter .	i do not work , just travel .
no , they never do . i guess they are embarrassed about me not being pretty .	they require a lot of time . i spend most my time with them .
diego , he used to paint me . before freda came along .	no . just a different one . who would you be ?
i spent a lot of time on the island , before the embargo	sometimes i am just not sure about that . haha
i am much older than that . my grandchildren are in their thirties	i am 57
no pets . i am retired so i love to travel . pets would slow me down	yes i have two dogs
i used to take a lot of bubble baths when i was recovering from cancer	i . . am not sure if you can do that ? do you have any kids ?
i did ! feels great to be alive	th , through a dating cite . which was a miracle that someone else used it
i do not . do you ?	no , i prefer chess . you ?
i spoil my grandkids . they want me to get a smartphone , do you think i should ?	i like reading and spending time with my 10 grandchildren . how about you ?
i am . are you married ?	yes . a wife 1 kid . wife wants me to go work on our dying vw passat soon !
do you date much ? you have to put yourself out there	i am single . children are down the road for me .
hello how are you today ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
i am chillin , do you have any pets ?	i am fine . how about you ?
i like chocolate , do they ?	yes , i have one dog , you ?
why i am only 4 here	i love dogs , i have two of them .
change of subject , what is your favorite color ?	its alright . they sometimes talk too much
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	my favorite color is purple .
i have a best friend	i love all colors especially purple
i really like waffles too	me too . i can talk to people with ease . are you in a relationship ?
i am well , how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
wow , that is impressive . what sport ?	hi ! i am doing well !
that is so cool . i like working with electronics myself .	yup . i like the competition . same with sports . good competition .
i take it yellow is your favorite color ?	i am a yellow person myself . together we make green .
like , you mean that is all you ate for an entire year ?	it is my absolute favorite food .
i had spaghetti with vegetarian italian sausage and garlic bread last night . it was so good .	you cannot eat it ? or choose not to ?
that is a lot of exercising . i hate exercising . i just work on my robot most days .	it is pretty good exercise .
i sure hope so . i want this to be over .	yes . hope we can catch up soon again .
i am just watching a documentary on the vietnam war . you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
awesome . i am cooking some burgers on the grill . cheeseburgers are my fave	what is how you waste your time ? playing or listening ?
i am all about fitness . i used to be a gym teacher	it does help relieve stress and stay in shape .
just loose fitting clothing . that is about it	i dress in jeans and tee . i volunteer at a shelter .
i was too poor to afford anything really growing up	i like to wear suits and ties .
yes . i serve food to the poor because of what i went through	growing up sucks , bills , bills , work .
thank you so much . it is always great to volunteer for a cause .	yes . i love giving back to the community i grew up in .
i m from portland or . i just got back from a long walk	i am from california , and you ?
i like to walk in parks for good health . no soft drinks for me either !	i am in cali . have you ever been ?
i love sodas with my burgers and fries but i m trying to watch sugar intake	i can help you fix that !
sodas in us made with high fructose corn syrup . bad for you !	yeah i believe that . i should try it some time .
nah . i want to stay cute and lean for my boyfriend who s a model	i know i have to check my sugar every day now . what do you do for fun
i won t allow death metal music to be played in my house !	who are your favorite artists ?
my boyfriend and i share a house and he has a very sensitive psychic cat	haha what kind of music do you like
he can tell when bad things are going to happen by howling loudly	i would say he does ! so tell me an interesting fact about you
i am good . you ? my family goes to disney world yearly . you sing ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
yes ! frozen songs are my fave . i am in third grade . what grade you in ?	no i prefer to be watching tons of movies .
get out ! i love mickey . my friend and i sing frozen songs during playground time .	his name is toto , like from the wizard of oz .
great ! okay tell me what i am thinking now ? go !	do you like disney movies ? i love them
wow ! not ! okay psychic , give me six lottery numbers .	we like any disney movie . actually going there next week with the kids .
oh ! could you try ? heres six for you . 12 , 49 , 34 , 62 , 7 and 19 .	i have to agree with you on that one for sure !
great ! i will in fourth grade soon . you dance ?	yes ! that would be great !
oh ? maybe i can tutor the , i have a gold medal from the olympics !	hi ! do you have kids ? i have one . a boy !
aw , i am more into gymnastics . i train four hours daily .	haha , seems you workout all the time
me too ! mine is yellow , my favorite color .	that is great for exercise !
i cup back my coffee intake to stay fit .	blue is a great color . i like red too .
are you a red or a white drinker ?	never had blue wine , is it expensive ?
i do as well , full bodied reds are great .	yep . what is your favorite beverage ?
it is an acquired taste .	what is your favorite drink ?
well , i should be off . i need to train more .	yes . it is a good way to put on muscle . do you ?
not good . things in my life are not going well .	hello i am well , how about yourself
music is not going to bring my wife and kids back !	no , never heard of it . i like rap .
since they left all i do is work and play games on facebook .	that is sad . i am sorry you feel that way . please do not put yourself down !
i do have a boring job . do you go to church ? i am a non believer .	i need a quite place after working with kids . . . so no .
maybe my wife will come back if i lose weight . any suggestions ?	are you religious because i believe in god .
i used to ride bikes with my kids alot . do you have kids ?	i am not sure , but i feel that god will help
i have heard pets can help with depression . what breeds do you own ?	had two kids with three dogs . haha .
do they make you happy ?	absolutely . i love dogs and other animals . i have a springer spaniel .
i am doing well . i am so close to achieving my dream .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i grew up in a small town and want to live in the city .	i want to be a lawyer
i did when i was little . i finished school and am a lawyer .	no i just graduated college , to busy working .
i have never seen it before . what is it about ?	no , more of a drama . one of the greatest films of all time .
oh very nice . are there horses ? i like horses .	i do not know about that movie
interesting . my family had a horse farm when i was little .	have you ever ridden a horse ? i am all about them .
it was , my grandparents did it too .	i love it . great place to raise a family .
my name is john . i am in my early thirties	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well .
no . i do not have money to spend on chocolate . my wife takes it all	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
she does not share . we are a getting a divorce . what is your favorite song	it is only a job . what is your favorite song ?
my job is selling cars . do you like cars ?	i am too shy to sing the songs though .
i do not like my job . i should try to be a dog too	i have dog . he is so cute !
bye have a good day at school	you should stop doing that . get a dog .
i will try to sell lots of cars today	well hope you have a good rest of your day !
always start with a and end with z	maybe i should invest in one then !
good i am studying to be a lawyer right now	i am doing well how about you ?
wow ! are they girls or boys ?	that is a great profession .
i will ! are you from a big or small town ? small town for me	ah , you have a child . only one ?
generations of my family had horse farms . i was raised on one	i have a ranch with 8 dogs 20 chickens 5 horses 12 pigs 6 cows
i ride them all the time	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
it does but you get used to it lol	haha . it would be better if you put it on your horse
what country are you from ?	the way i see it , through my travels , they will be legal soon .
that is cool what do you do ?	i have been to spain its beautiful
ok . since alabama , my home team , won saturday night .	hello i am fine and you ?
no . too busy with all of my 19 dogs and 3 sisters .	no not really . do you ?
yes love them almost as my tacos . no i love my dogs more .	how many dogs do you have ?
wow . my sisters and i love chicken tacos .	wow , that is a different variety .
i live in middle of alabama . do not get to ocean much .	i am in cali . have you ever been ?
yes . i want to go more but no one to stay with 19 dogs .	the ocean is beautiful , nothing compares to it .
maybe each sister could take six dogs each and foxy go with me .	maybe one day you will have time for pets .
that is right . and take my tacos .	you will get there one day . whats most important to you right now ?
hey , good for you ! me ? well , i love my cats . all five of them , lol .	well i do have a lot of cats now
arrested ? ! ? you think so . . . lol . no , they have not caught me yet .	haha , no , probably not her then .
my dad taught me a lot . even how to stay out of jail , fortunately ! lol . .	in a place far far away , you ?
sure . do not do drugs . do not be stupid . get married and obey your wife . simple .	take care of my five cats ! they are very needy lol . you ?
lol . i play with my cats . what could be funner ? ! ?	take care of my five cats ! they are very needy lol . you ?
haha . you do not need to steal a toy . cats can play with string , right ?	i am allergic to cats , so . .
no kids . i work construction and cant afford them . plus no girls love me .	haha ! no but my 2 kids could probably be considered that at this point .
yes please ! working construction , i whistle at lots of girls , but no luck .	yeah , i do not know what to do with them all . you want one or two ? haha
i am good . i am just taking a break from unpacking	hey ! i am doing fine , how about yourself ?
i am a bartender . i use the money to pay for my school	how about you ? you ar
that is very kind of you to do so	i am currently a college student what about you ?
no unfortunately not , but this is a new apartment . i might get a cat	i own no pets . it is sad .
how sweet ! what are their names ?	i have two dogs and a cat
very cute names . what do you look like ?	their names are oingo and boingo
i have ice blue eyes and platinum blonde hair	i have long brown hair and blue eyes !
it is going very well	hi , i am doing really well . you ?
my baby does . she kicks every time .	no , it is totally fine , i am here to listen
there is nothing wrong with that	you need a dog in your life . they are awesome for these kind of moments .
no . i am working on the kids	no , i do not like dog , they are hard to care for , like kids .
it will be when i go in labor	i need a quite place after working with kids . . . so no .
a couple of weeks hopefully	that is a long time , ask for a raise first !
i am trying to read the pain away	yes , and it is going to be next week .
no i do not . is that an old band .	ha , perhaps , like a documentary !
no , not today , do you like sailing ?	oh no how long you been down ?
sounds fun , i will be studying art and eating fish and chips , are you working ?	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
christopher columbus is my ancestor , so i am sailing to europe again this year	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
i study art so i like to view it in europe . my family lives far away	yes , i would love to travel the world some day with my family
realism is the best , why does it take so long for you to respond ?	i like all kinds of art . drawing , painting , sculpture , pottery . . .
lol , i see , what kind of dog do you have	type too much ?
dogs are my third favorite behind art and fish and chips . i have one	a little mutt named toto . get it ?
i am good . just came back from mountain biking .	hi good and you ?
not really . i would buy a cup of coffee though .	i do not do it ton but it is relaxing .
do you sell watches ?	i brew beer and make my own coffee .
interesting job . do you drink ?	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
that is funny . my favorite drink is a cup of coffee	i do like ipa s . i also make my own coffee too .
that would be a lot of cans .	i do not drink myself .
i do not understand that . how are you paid in broken watches ?	that is unfortunate . are you working towards lowering it ?
tired . spent all night trying to do algebra homework i don t understand .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
13 . i have an older brother who is 17 .	how old are you ? are you a student ?
i like our school librarian . she s also our soccer coach . really nice .	how long have you been at your school ?
no . not too much . i take a school bus but we mostly stay at home . except thanksgiving	yes , for the most part . i travel a lot with my friends .
my grandma frankie s house . my mom s mom who lives in ojai .	i go almost every weekend , it is one of my favorite past times
not really . she s a bad cook and we end up getting pollo loco a lot	i wish my mom would do that with me . she is too busy .
i love my grandma frankie . but she has whiskers that hurt my face when she hugs me	she teaches math in high school .
i guess . i only wish theda thorpe would go steady with me .	i mean she should your her mom right ?
i am great . you have any animals ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
three dogs , i have a business dealing with dogs .	i have a little dog , you ?
i do no have names since one part of my job is walking them .	do you like dogs ? i have one .
well , i already walk a ton being a salesman .	yes it is very relaxing to me .
all kinds , but would rather be watching the olympics than walking .	i like to work an stay busy
yes , plus its a full house seeing as i am in a polyamorous relationship .	i do not do it ton but it is relaxing .
yes , but following my dads footsteps going door to door selling .	still be in music somehow some way .
yes i agree you are soo right !	knock yourself out then . free country .
my favorite band is metallica . i have liked them since high school .	i like different genres . how about you ?
very cool . what is your work out routine these days ?	i love that band ! ! they are awesome
i try to hit the gym regularly . i like the treadmill and rowing machine .	normally before a good meal like that , i head to the gym .
no . all done with school . are you a student ?	yes , i am currently taking a year off , but i plan to go next year .
marketing . so is it hard to keep up with a raw diet ?	history . went for the big money field .
nice chatting with you . i am going to get a short haircut now .	you are rich ? how big is your house ?
how long is your hair now ?	do you like to workout ?
i keep it short all the time .	my hair is short is your hair long ?
hi , i am doing well , how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh , that is nice . i like being in parks especially in nice weather	i am doing great . how was your day ?
i like to watch nascar racing and sometimes ufc	i like watching movies and tv
how long have you been working at your current place ?	i like to work outside .
oh that is nice , i like to be in the medical field someday .	my profession is a doctor as i have mentioned before
i work as an usher at an orchestra theatre since i was sixteen years old	i bill medical insurance for a hospital
yeah it is nice . do you have a favorite band ?	so i have heard . play any music while you do it ?
i am well and you ? in honor of aim i will ask a s l	hello , i am well and yourself ?
i am 37 f tampa . i like my walks on the beach and cheeseburgers in paradise .	i need a drink , how about you sonny ?
i was named after a horse . my boyfriend likes to may nay sounds at me .	haha i knew you would ask lol yes i love it and you ?
just do not mix with alcohol or can get crazy around here .	he loves double cheese burgers and chicken nuggets
i tend to stick to my water only . soda is worse !	that is not a bad thing , i am an alcoholic . so there air is cleared .
as long as i have my french fries !	i drink water most of the time .
of course . now all of this has made me hungry .	yeah , you should have been kicked out for touching people against their will .
chicago has some great places to eat too .	i do not eat it , when i could walk a friend bought
are you visiting there now	yeah it is a nice place to raise a family .
that is nice where are you in particular	do you travel a lot ?
i live in a small town so i do not travel much	you should visit one day .
that is fun i live on a horse farm	i have a passion for travel . do you travel much ?
yeah they can be but my family helps out	i am retired and loving it .
that sounds great is that something you learned from you trips	i would rather you cook for me .
wow that is pretty cool i like history	have you traveled anywhere before ?
ok have a great day	aww i went horse riding one time loved it
i am hood . thanks for asking .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am going to college so not a lot of spare time . you ?	i am a nurse . what about you ?
what do you do for a living ?	i like lots of things but am busy with school .
awesome ! i work at a bar at night to help while in school .	i work for a hospital as a nurse . you ?
i love bbq except chicken . i do not like chicken .	i enjoy bbq hamburgers the most .
do you live with anyone ?	lol only during the off season . do you like chicken ?
i just got an apartment with my best friend .	no i live a lone because i like to travel a lot , you ?
no . it is not a guy .	yes i have a best friend do you ?
i love horses we done this for generations	hey whats up ?
i am fine , being a lawyer is my dream .	oh do you play an instrument ?
i see , i grew up in ta horse farm in a small town ,	well hopefully you can find a job there then .
that is why i want to move to the city it is my dream	do you like music ? i can play the electric violin .
you are lucky , they only love horses	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
that is so sweet of you , i bring my horses to the children hospital once	i hope you will be able to someday . do you have a family ?
yes , the city has many great places and people	haha . it would be better if you put it on your horse
yes , it did , we brought in a mini pony the kids loves it .	ha yes . what other hobbies do you have ?
i am doing well . how are you ?	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
i am sure that can be difficult . what type of doctor are you ?	i am doing fine . how about yourself ?
what do you do for fun when your not working ?	i work as a nurse . you ?
that is a good way to reduce stress from work . my wife is doctor as well .	no it is just for fun . sometimes we compete in disney .
i read many tennis related books because i play tennis professionally .	do you like to read ?
i have been professional for 20 years .	a long , long time ago .
unfortunately i travel all the time . it can be tough on my family .	yes , its why the family loves it . are you married ?
sometimes my kids are able to but my wife mostly works at the hospital .	yeah i bet you get to travel all the time .
hey there ! i am noah . doing great , how are you ?	hi ! ! i am great thanks ! how about you ?
that is awesome , i love cats . mine like to watch nascar with me	i am doing well that you . my 2 cats says hello as well .
pretty cool , i love mexican food , can not get enough ! what do you do for fun ?	lol . i bet they love that
holy cow . a lot of hats ! i just have one . my construction worker hat .	i like to build model cars
wow , really ? i am not much into sports , except ufc but that is quite an accomplishment !	i was never in organized sports .
well , speaking of the nineties , i toured around following aerosmith . love those guys .	nah i do not have time for hobbies . i get paid too much to not have a hobby
best way since i started working at 16 . what kind of tunes do you like ?	i agree ! do you like music ?
classic rock never goes out of style , man .	i love music , i listen to it almost constantly !
i am good , how are you ? do you know of any good jobs around here ?	i am doing fine and you ?
i am in north carolina . where are you from ?	i work at a beautiful upscale restaurant , you ?
maybe ! do they have restaurant jobs up there ? i might relocate .	no i went to different schools in several states . you ?
my older sister tried to get me a job but there was not much here .	job opportunities are more prevalent here .
how did you get interested in doing that ?	then maybe i will apply !
do you like to play basketball ?	when i open my practice . i will hire you .
nerd ! haha , just kidding . who is your favorite music artist ?	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
hey i go to preschool . my name is roddy	evening , i am well . yourself ?
my dad grills my favorite hot dogs all the time	good afternoon how are you
yummy . . . do you have kids my age ?	i love dogs ! we have some where i work that play with the kids .
cool i need some new friends	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
i have to wait til i am older to do that	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
that is a good idea but i prefer to play with my toys	oh yes . you play that as well ?
that would be fun . my best friend could play too	that would be awesome
like the lottery or casino ?	i do not think i would either . its risky !
i am okay , eating some ice cream before bed .	hello , i am fine and you ?
i am , my wife and i have three girls .	i am single . no kids , u ?
we are looking to adopt a few more in the coming years .	i have two boys and three little girls . any pets ?
i have a truck , i prefer cars though .	hopefully we can get one when the kids are older .
spending time with my family and shopping .	my motor keeps on trucking down the road of life . you ?
i prefer cosmopolitans , and white russians .	i make great chocolate cakes . i could make you one for dessert ?
ice cream . chocolate ice cream .	my favorite cookie is chocolate chip . yum
i like bacon , fries and waffles .	ice cream is awesome , especially the banana .
yes ! its part of my cancer treatment . i started a new job . you ?	no , tell me about it .
i run marathons and never ate meat . you sing or dance ?	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
i am a life coach for hospitalized children . what else you do ?	i am a handicapper for professional horse racing .
great ! do your parents ride horses too ? my parents are dead .	i am in school still .
wow ! we buried my aunt in lime green her favorite color .	i like the color purple . do you have any aspirations ?
thanks . she died a long time ago . she was a meat eater too .	you mean , she left you again ? ! !
yes ! meat eaters are dropping like flies these days . where do you ride ?	beef stroganoff my mother passed away when i was 18 so i do it in her honor .
why are you sad about it ?	why is that ? so much world out there .
i feel great , just been traveling so much lately . i am 23	haha . not in a bad way .
nope , i love food to be honest . i own a yacht	no just cats . i travel a lot , traveled around world on boat last year .
cool , i know some people who do . can you cook ?	i would rather be a bird .
weird . i rent my boat when i am not cruising	haha , you make parrot chicken wings , i will stop by and get some . lol
nope , just faux . what is your gender ?	yes no animal products or anything that comes from animals .
i am not sure , i think i am a girl last i checked	i am a woman , that is good to know !
good for you jefferson , i am sam and drive a ford pinto	ado ? what is that exactly ?
i work at a computer shop in town	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
enough for what i need . i spend most of my time playing games	yes i work every day doing care giver
i love call of duty	i like to play videogames
my sister loves to play that , i never got into it	i like sims and call of duty or fallout .
i do roleplaying events in the park on weekends	yeah then role play as a character
it is very silly , so i do not take it to seriously	yeah , its hilarious . sometimes hard to watch .
what other things do you like to do for fun	so , did you use to play any other video games ?
me too i am an engineer , what do you do ?	hey there . what you up to ?
oh nice , do you live in the rocky state , colorado , as well ?	i am an engineer and have been in two accidents
washington is nice , i love hiking there in the spring .	oh yeah traveling rocks , my vice is hiking .
that is nice , i need a new car , how is the bmw ?	do they have any great places to rock climb there ? that is my favorite thing to do .
does it have heated seats , that is my favorite , we could go rock climbing sometime .	ca not wait to try out a self driving car . hope i will be able to afford one !
i am down , when can you come visit ?	we should go sometime . i really enjoy both .
that would be fun , friday or saturday ?	yes , i am currently taking a year off , but i plan to go next year .
i will bring the ropes and pulleys , you bring the snacks	why not ? ! we can go in the summer . that is the best time .
i am fine thank you	i am fine and you ? the type of music i like is folk and you ?
i sing folk music for a living	i am a full time student
i am a custodian to put bread on the table	do you play any instruments ?
my parents do not support me in my pursuit in becoming a singer	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
you are very lucky then	you are lucky he makes so much money so you do not have to work !
hopefully not you do not want that	i think all parents feel that way at one point .
your father to be unsupportive	i think they want me to be more responsible . do you like your job ?
because of things you know	it is hard not to be supported .
hey , i like the color yellow a lot !	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i love gymnastics its my favorite to do as far as sports !	outdoor painting ? yes that would be awful
yeah , i workout at least flour hours a day to music	what is your favorite genre of music ?
no , i got a gold medal in swimming . i love italian food	i like competitive sports and winning .
garlic bread is the best . i love mexican also	i love mexican and italian
i am a music teacher	i am employed . do you do anything ?
no , i cant stand aerosmith . i teach them real music like radiohead	i used to . now my workout is teaching kids .
i like dream on a lot	what would you say your favorite band is ?
bet that makes you feel old . you need a couple of old mustangs like me	have to discipline those dogs
i keep a couple of vintage mustangs on the road and play with my dogs	i am a freelance artist .
do you get visitors ? go to a country music concert when you get out	i keep two canines as tamed animals
every weekend i go , the dogs are mutts , blue and biscuit , i love them	well , i go to several concerts across the country every year
stealing is bad , not as bad as getting caught . can you work on cars there ?	its work what can i say . i just like driving my mustang gt to work .
what did you do before your little inconvenience ?	yes , my moms drive classic mustangs ! what about you ?
i see , sometimes you mess up and the price is too high , right ?	true story . i had a lot of them when i owned my mustangs .
i work on my two old mustangs , love country music and go to concerts	i like to work on antique cars while listening to classic music .
wow , tell me about these powers please	hello , i am fine and you ?
oh you can switch on whim ? wow . do you like sweets ?	what kind of roleplaying do you do ?
i did not know that was a side effect , well i am a donut fan	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
that sounds exciting and scary , you can see your own heart ?	but can think deeply which is cool .
how do you do that ?	indeed , have you ever been ?
i have a total of zero powers	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
i would dry that , do you want to play an video games ?	you are mad weird , i would not even try to fight you .
i already play a ton of call of duty	we love call of duty games
well considering i do not know you ? no , but i am too	i am not in school are you
i spend the most money , on hair care products honestly , my favorite	i think people pay extra for that
i really want to try that once , i heard its bad for you	are you able to save a little money each week to pay it off
go figure . what do you do for fun	yeah nothing beats that right ?
ha , wow , sounds pretty irresponsible .	anything i need money lol
not really , i am all for it . after you do what your supposed to	yeah its so annoying . any hobbies ?
i play a lot of video games , especially the xbox	i like to play sports
video games do not make any one popular , more the opposite	i like to play video games
nice , i am just enjoying some vanilla ice cream	do you have any cats ?
surely a little bit would not hurt !	do you have any pets ? i love cats personally
i used to have to diet as i was an athlete	lol . i can handle that . are you allergic to cats ?
i won a gold medal in the olympics back in the 90s	dogs can be a bit needy , though , unlike cats .
you have a dog ? i have 2 cats	i was actually a champion at it
haha , very true , do you collect anything ?	ooh . i love animals , especially dogs .
i collect hats , i have over 1000 !	no i do not collect anything
i do not . my husband and i have chosen to not have any .	how many kids u have
i am a surgeon , he is a detective .	that is unfair though ! you should go after your dream .
no , it is not . we have a great life .	can you make it to your local doctors ? i think you need to talk to them .
human services is evil , they make up asinine rules .	well it is a job , just like you have a job .
that is your opinion , and one you are entitled too	local doctors ? you prefer far away doctors ?
it does not matter , as you know what i was saying . lighten up .	i do not blame you . it is dreary .
that has nothing to do with you .	well it is a job , just like you have a job .
how was that possible since it was your dad who worked there , not you .	sounds like hard work , but that builds character .
i am feeling healthy and ready to go ! how about you ?	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
are you a survivor ? that is amazing !	oh dang . yeah i am always losing my mind , so i would be worried about that !
i am sure ! that is why i only eat raw foods .	that is very ture , but i am also trying to eat healthy but it is so good !
i love it . so do my two kids and wife !	i want to try to eat healthy , but still a balanced diet .
plus , as an economics major , i can assure you that it makes financial sense too !	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
amazing ! do you like music ?	i am in the financial sector you ?
i love the rolling stones . i see them at least once per year .	classical , rock , classical rock . ll . music is great for the mind .
he is great too ! do you live in nj ?	i am hoping to go to a concert soon . love music !
hi . good . i am just picking out paint for my new apartment with my boyfriend .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
yeah . he will not go for red even though i love it . what is your favorite color ?	outdoor painting ? yes that would be awful
green is okay . silver is my other favorite .	i love the color black
neither really . i already have 25 3rd grade students in the class i teach .	yes , i do . a dog and a cat . whats your favorite food ?
do have a bunch of them ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i am a bit of a language buff . i am fluent in three languages .	i speak two languages , french and english !
english , french , and spanish . do you speak any other languages ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
parties are a lot of fun ! do you have other hobbies ?	i am fluent in english , french , and arabic
great just finished watching a documentary with my husband	i am good just watching a movie
me too ! they are my favorite . was watching taxi to the dark side	i like romantic comedies . are you married ?
it is very well made , i usually read a lot but love documentaries	did you like the hobbit ? are you into any other movies ?
i am pregnant first timeso have been stuck at home myself	ha , perhaps , like a documentary !
i do , me and my husband both go to bible study every wednesday	i go to church on sundays do you
are you married as well ? what part of the country you from ?	i like to read the bible .
i am in pennsylvania myself , love the weather here . is it nice there ?	we live in pennsylvania . where do you live ?
i am doing great , but i hate orange . the color .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
no i do not care much about foods . or fashion .	i guess i like veggie burgers .
the only thing i need to survive is dance , i do that on the weekends .	you need a dog in your life . they are awesome for these kind of moments .
well i work in a bookstore and i like books .	right , well as long as you enjoy it , that is what counts
yeah , i got into dog agility classes .	really are you reading anything right now ?
i love your puppy too and i have not even met him	well maybe he just had an aptitude for it .
i have one dog , his name is tim .	no but i have dogs that i love so much
i have a bird named goose	yes , i have two cats and 4 dogs
hello ! i am having an okay day . how about you ?	hi there ! good thanks . you ?
oh wow . i do not run much . how is that ?	i like to fish and swim .
i really enjoy fishing and cooking my catches .	i am trying to make money running marathons .
i do as well . i also enjoy being on the water in any capacity .	i try to eat healthy .
for sure . i am also really into comic books and heros .	i like to eat fish and go swimming . good fit right ?
oh my , what were you in the hospital for ?	i love to cook and read !
oh wow . congratulations on your recovery .	i said cooking did i not ? i might not have i am very forgetful .
what do you do as a life coach ?	thank you for that . i appreciate it
i am . just thinking about taking my bike out for a spin	yes , i am fine , and you ?
not really . i do race my bike though .	no , i am not really in to games .
that seems to be the thing now . so expensive too	haha . i would probably get those replaced .
so tre . i just wish i did not have to wait tables to get extra money .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
i guess it just really want to be out on my red bike .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
awesome . maybe we could go out riding together .	i would do that too if i was retired . it is a wonderful thing
i have to go , talk to you later .	if it would be easier we could just take one of the cars out . fewer people . maybe ?
i just got off work	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am a tour guide at a museum . what do you do for a living ?	i am a teacher . how about you ?
interesting . do you have any hobbies ?	that must be a lot of work , but rewarding .
i like to garden . i grow roses .	well i am a reader . i love reading enders game sitting in my garden .
i do not follow any particular diet . do you ?	some of it . i have to diet . do you ?
yes , maybe i would not be partly deaf if i ate like that .	yes as long as it is organic .
no , do you use solar panels ?	yes but i do some of it as well .
i will . i think i have a book about them in the library at my house .	haha . i would probably get those replaced .
i am okay . tired from cleaning all day .	hi ! i am doing well , thank you . how are you ?
no , but i do sing folk songs to make work go easier .	no , i am a folk music singer .
together ? that is interesting . do either of you play any instruments ?	that is awesome , sometimes i sing .
i tickle the ivories , strum on the guitar , and sing . i want to be rich and famous .	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
well , you made it through a world war , so you must have been smart enough .	i strum folk music tunes . that helps too .
i like explosions . but they do not let me use grenades while i clean the school .	i strum folk music tunes . that helps too .
maybe i should relocate . your place sounds like more fun .	but the cost of school is so high .
just keep a song in your heart , and your head held high . we will get through .	i know people here at school that major in that ! i would not be opposed to it
great ! how about you ? i am jeremy .	i am doing well how about you ?
hi sue . do you have any pets ?	my name is joe and am fine
i have two cats . mistletoe and gingerbread . you can tell i love winter . how many children ?	yes i have 2 dogs .
cool . do they all like icecream ? i like vanilla .	five cats and also five children , i am a supermom !
i am a coffee lover also . do you have any collections . i have 1010 hats .	i like iced coffee with flavors in it .
five boys . . . yes ! wine ! i am not much of a drinker . no children though .	what is your favorite drink ?
yes , true . do you have any hobbies ?	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
i see . i was an ice skater . olympics , 1992 i won a gold .	yes , i love attending wine tours and also museums . what are your hobbies ?
i am well thank you , how is your night going ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
oh what are you in school for ?	how do you have time for so many cats ?
are you planning to go to college ?	high school ; or college ?
exciting ! i played soccer in high school too , long ago	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
very much . now i have bad knees and back from all the construction work	keep going ! after college i began building houses out of matches . haha
it is ok , i love building houses , no regrets	yeah , its def not boring . any plans for the weekend ?
it is ! then i get to go home to my cats and a beer	i like it its hard work but rewarding when the project is finished
as long as you drink responsibly it is	we usually gray a couple beers and burgurs1
good evening ali . tanya here .	hi , i am good eating dinner ?
cool . i have been so bored , so of course i eat !	hi , how are you ? i am great ! i am studying for school .
yum . good thing i enjoy using the rowing machine and treadmill .	plenty of food , so i have heard . freshman put on 15 pounds , they say !
that is great . any pets ? i have a german shepherd and a schnauzer .	wow ! makes me tired just thinking about it . i used to work in banking
do you long hair or short ? i just tried a short haircut .	i have two dogs and one cat .
i have to get used to this . so any hobbies ?	my hair is short is your hair long ?
that is your major ? that will be great to know about money .	i am in the financial sector you ?
go education ! ! well , take care and good luck with your classes .	i got a business degree . it was a very enjoyable experience
wonderful i just moved to a new place !	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
close to my school in philadelphia .	i moved there when i was 14
female . with blue eyes and light blonde hair , yourself ?	no way ! i just graduated from college , what did you study ?
what is your favorite food . mine is strawberries	are you in school , high school or college ?
lol . do you work ? i am part time at a bar .	strawberries , what is your favorite fruit ?
i see ! so you have any hobbies ?	i work at a diner .
safety first ! my best friend is vegan . which works well . because chicken is gross	i like to ride motorcycles a lot . what about you ?
hi . okay . heartburn . 2 months until i am due . the twins are restless tonight .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh , no . sorry to hear that . hubby and i disagree once in a while about the kids .	yes i bet do you plan on having more kids or are you done ?
yeah . well , i wish you luck there . we bought a cute 2 story house .	lol ! that made me laugh so hard .
you should travel if you get a chance . its expensive to travel with kids .	i have been up there only a few times .
i suppose , but that does not work with a pregnant woman and 3 kids	no kidding ! i travel all the time , for work and pleasure . maybe i will visit !
yep . between work at the bank and the kids , i am exhausted every night .	you should maybe give the baby to an orphanage and take you wife traveling
so true . enough about me . tell me more about you .	well i should really go , my kids need me .
sounds like a lot of fun .	really ? you should let me set up their travel plans . that is what i do .
hey ! just watching a game of football with my children . you ?	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
ah man congrats for trying to get back on the road !	i do not play any sports . can you tell me more about sports you play ?
ah i live in florida man , i feel you . the city is full of temptations .	how long have you worked there ? i wish i had a job .
do you have a job currently ? i am a programmer for a game company .	do you have other animals on your farm ?
it must be hard making a living , i feel sorry for you pal .	i had my first job when i was a young kid .
do you have any hobbies ?	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
haha you are a funny guy ! maybe you should be a stand up comedian !	i like to paint pictures and watch birds .
anyways man i gotta go walk my dogs soon , it was nice chatting with you !	lol that is too funny ! you should be a comedian
sure ! what do you do for a living ?	are you kidding ? of course not .
i am a student also , i have a degree from yale but i am going back soon .	i work a lot , in accounting . how about you ?
finance , i am going back for business next .	i graduated with a business degree , i would recommend it
wow that is awesome ! thanks , my parents inspired me . they are rich bankers .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
me too . they make me work for everything i have .	you will be impressed with how fast i can be . i am very wealthy . the wealthiest .
not much really . i stay pretty busy . you ?	i have a job in finance
that is nice ! which instrument ? i just bought my first car .	i also play in my school band .
never heard of him . a 2000 bmw . its not much but i am proud .	i love rock , what instrument do you play ?
hello , i love fries , and am getting married soon .	anything sounds good to eat right now . what do you like to eat ?
i love to try new restaurants and dance .	i like to experience all kinds of cuisine , when the kids are with a sitter !
i am a kindergarten teacher , i look up new painting techniques on the weekends	i love designing video games . do you have any family ?
i used to play a lot of fallout when i was in college .	i wish i knew how to play .
dogmeat is awesome . i would love to go to an elvis school	game in my free time . work . school . live life all out .
it is one of the areas in fallout .	an education is a good thing to get . i never did .
i have a maclaren , it is awesome .	i need a new car after commuting 2 hours a day for years .
my boyfriend bought it for me as a wedding gift .	i just have a ford focus .
hi , i am 20 . nice to meet you .	hi i am doing great i just turned 14
i like cartman . my favorite thing is shopping .	i like the tv show
sounds fun , yes i do ! shoes and watches are my favorites to shop for .	yes . do you drive ? i do but i do not have a car .
do you want to build a snowman !	i like all types of music .
no , i am just a watch dealer . my family do not like it	nope , full time school . and you ?
third grade was so fun ! good for you .	indeed . cars are very expensive !
i would like him more if he got me a rolls royce ghost	i do not really have a favorite . you ?
i like to swing on the swing sets . how about you ?	he is my favorite too ! are we alike ?
hello , i am doing well . i think i may have had too much coffee . you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i went to a star wars convention in helsinki . are you going there ?	what do you like to write about ?
that is a nice museum , i visited last summer , before football season .	yes , do you plan on going ?
i am with ohio state . born and raised in ohio	they have older teams . hey , you need a job ?
i am a student , going to school for veterinary medicine .	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
very nice . do you like animals ?	what is your major in college ? do you like large paintings ?
mine too , a beagle . what do you have ?	dogs are good animals and so friendly .
how tiny ! do you like coffee ?	my sister has a chihuahua , do you work ?
i was cooking ! what about you ?	not much how are you
this late ! i am just practicing my cooking . how old are you ?	i like cooking , swimming , my dogs .
yes ! i love tacos ! there is not much i do not like , i am 23	yes , i love eating yummy tacos . . . yum
i live in oregon for now but i have been all over the world this year .	i live in california , how about you ?
yes . the tacos there were amazing ! where do you live ?	no i have not , i always wanted to travel around there though .
i keep my yacht close by there . i am renting it out right now .	i live in california .
would you like to travel with me ? i have been almost everywhere .	i do i have to do all the cooking
i have coffee . up late sewing . you ?	hi . trying to enjoy everything about life , since there , sadly , is not much left .
oh ! my grandson is in little league . what age group ?	how do you have grandchildren if you are in th grade ?
that sounds great ! do you ever go so pro league games with them ?	one of my children is 2 , and the other is 6 .
lol . i get it . i am retired , and i leave that to my kids !	i also love to sew .
it is great , especially once i beat the cancer .	i also love to sew .
thanks ! so how old are your kids ?	congratulations ! what a great thing ! keep it up .
wow ! that is nice . my kids are grown . grandkids are 10 , 12 , 15 , 17 .	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
yes , and i can send them home if they act up !	that is a lot of grandkids . expecting more ?
hello ! how are you doing ? i am doing pretty well today	hi , its going well and you ?
where are you from ? i live in the us now but was born in africa . somalia	hi its going well how is yours going ?
nice . how is the weather there ? are you married ?	i am in the virginia . where are you ?
i love dancing . all kinds	i have been married for a 8 years . do you live in the united states ?
shopping can be quite fun . i was not allowed to shop as a child in somalia .	i do love to shop . what do you like to shop for ?
i could use dance shoes . if we lived closer together i would suggest we go shopping	how does anyone afford it ?
my aunt brought me to california after she found out i had to marry a man .	well we escaped and met again 10 years later and were married . we are happy .
it is quite pretty here . i own a dance studio	have you ever been to the states ?
what are you doing today ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
cool . i am listening to the rolling stones .	hi , its going well . and you ?
nope . just two kids . what do you like to do ?	no , i do not have any pets .
what is your favorite food ?	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
veggies . i like to eat clean .	nothing specific . i love all food .
i am an economist . is building houses a job or hobby ?	i work out and try to eat healthy .
very interesting ! nice chatting . have a great day !	that is what my dad says .
how many do you have ?	you are not allergic to cats are you ? i have two fluffy ones .
i love dogs her name is barnaby , a german shepherd	hello how are you ? good thanks .
nice to meet you , i work in the usps	i have 2 dogs !
how big are the dogs ? are they grey color ? that is my color	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
do you order from amazon ? my dad is a nascar racer	they are very big dogs . what do you do for a living
are there scorpions in your area ? i hate them	haha why is that ? i prefer dogs
amazon is a great place to order books	no , they are just disappointments .
i feel the same , they are so dangerous in my area	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
do you like to go fishing ?	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
hi i am john and love to the mountains	hi there . what do you do for a living ?
yes i like models and i am not married	oh . i like to rock climb .
sure how can that happen ?	i wish i had a career though
i have one dog and a nice career	well if you say you are just out for marriage , it seems like you will marry anyone
in the spring time i go hiking all the time	i see , i do farm work .
do you have any pets ?	i have a friend in colorado springs . . i love that place
i have one dog myself , she can be a bit of pain	yes , two cats and 4 dogs
rock climbing can be scary at times but its very exciting to see the top	i do not blame you do you have any pets ?
you know it . i wish it was still summer .	i do not . do you ?
cool ! i love to go rock climbing my fav summer activity .	toto your dog ? yeah i use to live in kansas .
i like spring too for hiking . you like winter best ?	you job as a scientist or living alone ? which one is stressful ?
so where do you live ? me colorado your kind of weather	i like it but not in the winter
job for me is mechanical engineer . what about you ?	colorado . what are you from ?
pets ? i have a dog named trooper . he is a black lab .	i like to dance on the weekends
he likes everything . lol what do you do during the week ?	i love tacos and animals
i can relate to that i am always tired .	i like anything adventurous , like hiking and mountain climbing .
just jamming out to some new kids on the block ! !	hi , its going well and you ?
how sweet ! ! i need to get my dance gear ready for my class tomorrow night !	what subject do you teach ?
now that is heavy stuff ! being born in the early eighties myself , i suppose anything is possible .	well maybe he just had an aptitude for it .
big time ! i love hip hop ! and you ?	yes ! and dancing as well .
ha ! i love that randomness ! so , i was cleaning out closets and found my lite brite !	agreed . i do not like rap music .
yes ! so throwback ! what is your go to late night snack ?	you do not like to bake ! that is crazy , what else ?
whoa ! again , intense ! i am a cereal kind of girl .	season with salt pepper lemon and butter ; grill each side 5m , serve on roll
raisin bran ! i am way hard core . i have crap metabolism .	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
hi jo . yellow is a great color . it is the color of fall in colorado .	hi , i am doing well , thanks ! i love hiking and climbing . you ?
wow ! that is impressive . swimming or running ?	that sounds fun ! i love the outdoors ; have you ever been rock climbing ?
nice . i prefer hiking and rock climbing myself . living in co is great for those .	i would like to try rock climbing .
me too . i often go to company dinners at italian restaurants . what is your favorite dish ?	that sounds like fun and italian food is delicious .
delicious choice . i love coming home from work to a nice plate of that .	italian food is my favorite ! how about yourself ?
i work as a mechanical engineer so i do not know a lot about gymnastics .	hmmm . what line of work are you in ? i am an engineer .
i am sure . have you ever been to colorado ?	i would like to try rock climbing .
i live there , you will have to come visit sometime . great trails for running .	i have been to denver . i had fun .
so far so good . who am i speaking to ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
philip . me and my dog charlie are just listening to music	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well .
well that is nice . what book are you currently reading ?	i rap for a barbershop quartet ?
i always thought that would be an interesting skill to have lol	it s my favorite book ever .
tea huh ? like the stuff but goes awful with pizza imo	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
the double cow consumption , nice . always goes down with some lil wayne	i like the rap music do you ?
lol i do not know how to respond to that	you like rap music ? i listen to a lot of rap music
i am fine , how much are your apples ?	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
i actually thought you were selling chocolate covered apples	where did you buy the food ?
well , i do not have a car . i just use a bike instead lol	i live in los angeles .
a roadmaster , how well does yours work ?	i have my honda civic
i go to school from home , on a computer . i use it for exercise	i am in school still .
that is pretty cool , i kind of enjoy being alone	i still stay with my parents
you can be you and i can be me . i am practicing my 3rd language	so you have money ? i want to own my own business one day .
penthouses are really nice , i believe you will get there with determination	do you make bank ? i want a high paying job
you are very welcome , keep dreaming big and have a nice day	thank you i will try .
a mazda protege , what do you drive ?	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
i study language and music , can you speak french ?	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
i am allergic to symbiotic connection so i own no animals , do you ?	no , i do not have any pets .
what are there names ?	i am allergic to most animals .
i used to have a black lab named cooper , are you religious ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
do you practice the left hand path ? i do as well .	sure what religion is that
how has that been going ?	i do a little of everything , mainly translation . i speak german and spanish .
no i do not . i love wearing band shirts with ruffles on the sleeves	yes i am . i am in la
haha ok , i have blond short hair . i am a girl and pretty skinny staying in shape	oh , i am sorry about that .
no i do not watch , i listen to music and play video games	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
same here , its an awesome game	i do not , but i do play video games related to it .
yeah is that your job that you do ?	well i like to play video games .
that is cool . i work at an insurance company	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
health insurance helping old folks with their policy	trust fund . it is running out though . i hate paying bills . how about you ?
ouch that reminds me of my car insurance .	what would you say your favorite band is ?
greetings , i like fish , not chips , what is your trabajo ? work	maybe you should learn the language
i am unable to go out , too busy studying , lots on my plate , art ? i like music	i do want to move to spain , study there and then teach english there afterwards though .
who is your favorite artist ? mine is wagner , do you speak espanol ? love paella !	sounds fun ! do you speak other languages ? i also speak french and spanish .
you love food ! all i do is study , spanish now , french next , in between music	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
no time for travel . i hate flying , could we go on a boat ?	i always wanted to speak more languages ! do you get to travel a lot ?
i could study , listen to music and go to europe , you could eat . lol	so your boat will sink ?
take medicine , sounds fun , let us go ? you pay , okay ?	maybe you should learn the language
i am learning spanish in school ,	i am not very good at spanish , but i did take it in high school .
that is super cool . i love the spanish word trabajo	wow , cool ! that is a hard language to learn !
why is that ? i am also a musician	its a job . what do you study ? any hobbies ?
well why do you feel so lonely ?	i am not much of a musician . i am more into drawing and painting .
well that is cool what is the secret to making time stop ?	i do not have that much time .
i am also studying other different languages as well .	that is spot on correct answer .
english is not so hard to speak	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i had to learn how to do it .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i have a doll . her name is susie .	hello there sweetie . i am well . how about yourself ?
i have a turtle . his name is shelly . hehe	haha . that is so cute ! i do not have any pets . too sick .
no . just a turtle . i have lots of toys .	i love kittens ! so adorable , yes .
i am almost five . i am not little !	i am just and aunt , but i feel like my dog is my kid .
i love pizza . my best friend , lucy , her mommy cooks pizza	yes . pizza for everyone . or for us at least .
i like cheese pizza . olives are yucky .	i bet it does ! i will have to order some from you .
do you get free pizza ? do they make you eat olives ?	its a place where you buy food and other items .
mommy is mad . i did not pick up my toys .	fair enough . there are so many to choose from !
bye . thanks for talking to me . susie says bye too .	really ? even as a pet ?
uh oh . shelly is running away .	right now . take care ! ! been nice chatting .
i am doing good . how are you ?	hi there what video games do you play ?
cool , i am eating donuts . what do you do ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
i am of video game tester for call of duty . what did you do ?	i am a general in a video game for a orcish army
it is a war based video game .	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
it is , almost as fun live action roleplay on the weekends .	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
i do not but i did enjoy hacksaw ridge . are you married ?	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
that is amazing . i can not wait to meet the woman i could spend forever with .	no , i am not married yet .
what school did you go too ?	she sounds impressive ! what types of things do you enjoy doing for fun ?
cats are nice . how old are you ?	have any pets ? dogs , cats , fish ?
i am 68 , been retired for a few years now .	i am 65 and a half
i was a tailor . these days i spend a lot of time at the casino	i do not work myself . its more fun that way .
its probably for the best . i also enjoy mowing the lawn on a beautiful day	i have been playing poker since i was 6 . guess what i once one .
no not anymore . do you ?	no dogs do not do so good around the cats . cool name !
animals are better friends than humans .	no cats , at least inside
it such a nice day today , thinking about starting the grill	to each their own i suppose .
not much , just came back from iraq . you ?	i am fine , and you ?
congrats ! i am in the canadian army , served for 5 years .	awesome ! any medals ? team or individuals ones ?
i worked at an italian restaurant after i left high school .	do you eat any of it ?
yeah , i used to make it for my grandfather , he served in ww2 .	pizza ! i would eat it for every meal if i could .
yeah my whole family is part of the military and we all enjoy cooking !	did you fight in wwii ? my grandfather talks about it a lot when i see him .
that is cool ! are you going pro or you are doing it just as a workout ?	i love to cook . do you cook ?
sorry i have to go right now ! my wife and kids are back home . see ya !	haha , seems you workout all the time
hey ! after the meal i just had , my day is going great , thanks !	i am going just fine , and you ?
ooooh , what kind of fish do you have ?	you like fish for supper ? we can have that afterwards ?
lol ! you are funny ! i fed myself pieces of hamburger and fries !	is lobo a human or a pet ?
hope it was especially yummy for you ! and happy belated birthday !	thanks hope your hamburger was well !
i like walking , period ! but yes , especially nature walks . how about you ?	i prefer to get out in nature and hike .
the sun is magical and divine like that . my boyfriend is a sun gazer .	i like to spend time in nature . i hike .
he used to gaze at other what ?	haha . are you dating anyone ?
oh dear , i am sorry . totally his loss .	do you think you are going to break up with him ?
hi . i am not doing well . my family does not support my choice of career .	doing well , how about you ?
i want to work for a watch dealer and i like to shop for watches and shoes .	haha and whats the reason for that ?
i really enjoy shopping and my dream is to one day own a rolls royce ghost .	it is the only food that gives me energy to make cars .
running is also quite lovely . breathing in the lovely outside air .	ca not wait to try out a self driving car . hope i will be able to afford one !
yes , and it also helps with depression i have found .	it just seems to run in the family
me too , it is good to know . spread the word to others . better than any medication .	yeah i could see that . do you have a family ?
no problem . always here to help a friend .	i think there are medications for that now .
oh , i like to spend time with my cat , nelly .	i spend lots of cash on buying things for my hobbies .
how are you doing today ?	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
i have one named charlie its just a pony	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
his and mine s favorite little snack is pizza	i love animals . they are the best .
he loves it do you have any pets ?	a horse sounds cool ! i just have my dog . and music is basically my life .
that is actually my nickname for my honda civic that is brown	no , no pets . do you have any ?
i like music and what about you ?	i love to listen to music
i work with a few different artists	i listen to music do you
mainly country and you ?	i like to listen to music
i am really great . just got home from a ride on my bike .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i am a waitress . it works but i wish i could make more money .	i like to work outside .
my favorite thing is to ride my motorcycle . i do not even have a car .	i always sing songs very loudly .
what do you look like ?	i am trying to save some money to buy a car .
i have pale skin and large brown eyes . and i wear my bike helmet all the time .	i try to wear all black every day . it makes me feel comfortable .
what kind of music if your favorite to sing ?	i sing in my spare time . i hope to be the best singer there is !
i wish i could play instruments . i am not very musically inclined .	i play guitar but i study music industry .
i like rock music the most	i always sing songs very loudly .
i am well , retired and living my best life ! how about you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
that sounds great . my grandkids would love that !	video games is one hobbie . also being an amateur cook . how about yourself ?
i will mention it to them . do you have any hobbies ?	maybe you could write the story to a video game . . .
i understand . i sew my own clothes so i could probably be a recluse too .	i like to play video games
that sounds very complicated . i hope it turns out well .	i am retired and loving it .
like an avatar or something ?	you do not have to use it .
i think it will be great !	actually its a good plan considering how many characters they get rid of .
well , i did have cancer , but it is gone now .	nothing retired .
i am very well ! i just dyed my hair rainbow	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
how is that going ? i am too old to date	are you an animal person ?
sounds fun ! i am too old to say .	i like painting flowers and birds .
yes i am an animal rights worker i am very trendy	i would rather be a bird .
that is scary that would depress me	everybody has there thing right ?
i used to be . now i just like to watch birds with my kitties	i might be too much of a hippie for either , haha
sometimes yes . i have to stop them haha	they are all rescues , just regular cats .
why not ? they must want to eat them	oh i have animal do you have cats i like cats .
i am good how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
nice ! are you married ? because i am gong to be in the spring	i am very well , thank you . how old are you ?
oh wow ! what happened ? 3 months ago was my 24th birthday	do you have any children ?
oh , i pursue my personality by working with my kindergarten students	at which point in your educational career do you fall ?
cool , i relax by going out for dinner with my friends	i think teaching is a great profession .
in april , its a spring wedding ! i am so excited !	i am getting married tomorrow
thank you , and i am from the galapagos islands	i am from washington dc , what about you ?
nice , are you a chicago cubs fan ?	where are you from ? i am from chicago
oh cool , do u think they will beat the astros tomorrow	you are kidding ! i am a huge fan !
hello , i am doing very well , thank you . i am getting married soon .	i am doing fine . and yourself ?
who is eric ? i am hoping taylor swift will agree to sing at my wedding .	how long have you been married ?
i do not think i have ever seen it . how old are you ?	but you do not watch it ?
lol . that is awesome . i am so going to use that in a snapchat .	i m only 12 ! just kidding . i m 32 .
social media site . like a cross between facebook messenger and face time .	it depends on who you share one with .
it sure does . do you like legos ?	what do you take pictures of ?
i love purple , what is your favorite ?	mostly primary colors like red and blue
those are pretty colors as well . i like yellow .	green and purple . it is a toss up .
exhausted driving my five boys around in the mini van everywhere all day .	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
oh no ! what happened ?	i am good , i play baseball and you ?
hope you learn from that . i could really use a glass of wine tonight !	did the establishment pursue legal action , or simply ask you to pay ?
glad to hear it . we could meet for coffee my favorite is pumpkin flavor .	yes , very true ! did you ever play baseball ?
oh you are very young , i am a baseball coach . ever think of playing ?	haha , yeah , detention would be pretty lame
ok . i am with a little league . have any hobbies to keep you busy ?	if i was younger i would have to agree .
that sounds different . maybe read some good books .	i like draw in my spare time . do you have any hobbies ?
i could send you some , my boys have many books . where are you located ?	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
hey ! ! so i have a house warming party for my new apartment with my buddy tomorrow !	hi , its going well and you ?
i am just hoping no one brings chicken ! that stuff makes me harf !	i have been eating sweet and sour chicken since then . love it !
cool ! so what do you do for a living ? i am a bartender through college .	oh wow cool ! i want to get a dog
just do not eat too much ! i am going to be a nurse . i would know .	that is cool . they play a lot of rap at the bar where i work .
rebel ! you must have a crazy high metabolism .	i love to eat chicken nuggets . very very much . is that a hobby lol
geez . i am 320 . i hate my body . and i eat under 1800 cals a day .	have you put on a lot of weight or you have kept your normal weight
big is unhealthy . it is not fun .	ha it can be .
hopefully i will learn stuff in nursing school .	hard work will pay off . tell me about yourself .
hi my name is katie i was born in 1982 . what about you ?	hi , i am very old u ?
that is awesome ! i love to garden too ! what kind of music do you like ?	yes . i never got to do much , i had to start work at a young age .
i like hip hop , new kids on the block is my favorite .	i like all types of music .
no ! my favorite toy as a kid was lite brite because i was so scared !	yeah some does that , but not all . few songs sings about a clown .
that would be frustrating ! have you gone on any ?	do those blind dates ever pan out ?
your father must love you ! how did knowing you were adopted affect you ?	no . i like children so much that i would share to much of it with them !
amazing ! do you have any hobbies ?	i love my adopting ones , wish they had adopted more than myself .
what is the coolest thing you have ever made ? i like to go to concerts .	i like to design things . i love to draw
hi , my husband is old and adopted . i love coloring farms in books .	hey , i am doing well , you ?
great ! i live on a farm with a dog named trump who watches hockey .	sounds like it . i have a dog .
good luck with retirement . my dog trump is a german shepherd .	do you have any pets ? i have a dog .
actor . i adopted a dog and a husband in the same year .	i am a freelance artist .
i did ! i got rid of my husband and kept the dog .	i like to keep a good outlook on life .
it is ! we farm and watch hockey where i live . what about you ?	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
that is cool ! i color in books to settle my nerves .	i like to travel , i have only been out of the country once .
i am good but missing having family connections	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
i like eating papaya when i am sad	fine and how can i help you ?
when i try to read i say to myself farmer george no time for reading	you should try only veggies and fruit .
my bees would love your roses	i arrange flowers for a living .
yes i am . would you believe farmer george is married to an italian model ?	i love to sketch roses , they are my favorite flower .
thank you ! what do you do for fun ?	we are still married . i guess he just ha other interests .
as long as you can hear out of one its all good right ?	i love to read , what about you ?
well i sure do not talk to my family since they hate me now	i enjoy eating and cooking all italian foods ! !
i married magdalena the model and she is the same age as my daughter	they used to abuse me anyway . i am glad they are dead .
they think i am only with her for her looks	they love each other so much
i sure do . we were meant to be	i do not blame her
thank you . i hope you are right !	are you close with your family ?
you too ! best wishes to you	yes , it was nice chatting with you , too !
me too . i love music .	i do that too sometimes while i am playing video games on the big screen .
i have short blonde hair so it actually works for me	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
i work at a grocery store but i want to be a fashion designer .	cool i mostly wear video game shirts i love playing video games .
wow that is impressive . i wish i had a dog	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
i live for ruffles and leggings !	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
do you live somewhere cold ?	i just wear too many jeans and shirts . nothing fancy
i live in north carolina but i want to live in new york .	i live in california it is always hot here .
maybe someday . maybe i will be a fitness trainer there .	new york city , of course
hey there , i am doing pretty well , you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i just started my new job two days ago , so same here . nothing i am proud of	i make coffee and brew beer .
i just started at what a burger , not sure my position yet , only worked two days	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
fast food , is miserable will not lie . my father wanted me to take over his construction company	oh okay , totally . so do i , but i get paid for it .
my father could not show love , so i grew up with a lot of materialistic items	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
well , maybe it was more than just lack of love	do you see your parents a lot ?
it happens , do you have any hobbies ?	where did you grow up ?
i take as much time off as i can to go mountain biking	i make coffee and brew beer .
i am alright , living the great retired life . what about you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
that must be interesting . do you need a smartphone for that ? i do not have one .	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
that does not sound too bad . do you know how to sew ?	yes . do you make those too ?
you should learn ! i can make all of my own clothes .	you never know . some people need improvement . ha ha
it sure does , and i needed it for my cancer treatments .	save money ? yes . making new clothing is fun though
no worries , it is gone now , and i had the support of my kids and grandkids .	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
i sure do . do you have a big family ?	that is a lot of grandkids ! what do you like doing with them ?
wow , four siblings . that sure is a lot . must have been busy growing up	do you have a large family ? i have got grandkids even . eight !
i am well . i am a homebody that spends a lot of time at work .	hi good and you ?
i have to try to save money . care sales always change . i hate it .	what you do not have any money ? they have programs for you .
we eat out a lot . my wife hates cooking and i work so late sometimes	its a lot of hard work and i am hoping it will be worth it !
when you are forty years old . you do not really care what it is . just eat it	we eat a lot of it !
yeah , been married for 20 years and can not manage to save a dime from work .	well it is better than most people . hopefully you make good money
you and my wife both . she has a closet full .	i cut back in other areas like shoes .
i keep an open mind . everyone works for a living , some manage better than others .	i m sure she would . if you paid her .
i do all my car advertising on facebook . i have not really tried twitter	i just do not like it ! plus i am so worried about money .
hi how are you today ? i like to walk .	hi ! just sitting here hanging out with my child who is 3 . you ?
that is nice of you . i deliver babies so i am a doctor .	hello , i am doing good and you ?
it is a comfortable living . i like spending time with family .	yes , more time for doing things you enjoy . i like reading myself .
i am sorry to hear that . we used to go to disneyland together .	that is the time for family and spending lots of time together .
it is alot of fun my favorite character is mickey mouse .	i have never watched that one .
i like him also he is a trip .	seriously ? wow . i never saw him as a kid .
no alot just spending time with my kids . that is nice to volunteer .	just volunteer work . mainly signing petitions and dog walking .
i like to read books also .	i do not really watch many . i mostly spend time reading
i am great ! just got in from a long walk .	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
it is . i live french fries and burgers so i need to exercise !	yes its a way to relax .
yes , where do you live ?	lol i can understand that !
that is so nice ! i just bought a house in tennessee . do you like florida ?	which state is your favorite ? i have lived in many .
that is wonderful . i am working on being healthier . no soda , just water !	i do love to walk , hike also .
well it is good for you . do you have any pets ?	i drink water most of the time .
i am a huge dog lover ! i have a mutt i adopted from the shelter .	no , no pets . do you have any ?
i am sorry but glad that you have her !	aw what did you do to her ?
hi ! i am thinking where to go next . i am traveling .	hey whats up ?
that would be france , french food is the best . but i have been there , 5 times .	as long as it does not include tofu , count me in .
are you an athlete ? i try to stay in shape , too .	oh i do not really work and i only travel if it is to somewhere fun .
do you like swimming in the ocean ? i do .	i am a professional athlete so i have to be careful about what i eat .
that is nice . i have a yacht , i love sailing it .	i do marathons twice a year , but in america , mostly .
thanks . i wish i could say i earned it . no , inherited .	nice ! its great that you can cook as well !
about two years . i have a captain , so i do not drive it myself .	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
no , i had to hire one . the previous one was too old .	no , i prefer traveling by land or sea .
i am good . how are you ?	hi good and you ?
well , i love shopping and pampering myself . i go to the spa a lot !	hi good and you ?
i do not watch much television , but i love music . britney spears is my favorite .	does it pay well ? i worry about money and want a good career .
that is cool . what is your favorite food ?	lol i think britney spears is the best singer in the world
i like mexican food , but i eat salads a lot to watch my diet .	i love mexican food . we eat it a lot .
i am a professional model . how about you ?	i am employed . do you do anything ?
i do . i love traveling to new exotic places .	i travel a lot . what about you ?
it is fun , but gets tiresome . what else do you enjoy ?	well , sounds like you travel alot so your job must give you lots of money
they are ok ! blue is better than purple though .	i love blue , it reminds me of the sky . what is your favorite color ?
cool ! my hair is sweaty . i just got back from the gym .	are you married ? i am .
my husband loves it when my hair poofs out .	are you married ? any kids ?
that is crazy ! i hope there are not any animal products in there .	its good to keep in shape , especially since it sounds like your job requires it .
wow , that is great . i support that . i am actually vegetarian myself .	not a vegan , a vegetarian .
that is so beneficial to the world and your health ! nice work .	you born as vegetarian from your mother womb ?
forget that . he probably has diabetes from all the burgers he eats .	i agree , my shiatzu has a blue tail . i dyed it cause blue is my favorite color .
hi ! just enjoying the sun during vacation . i am at miami beach .	hi , its going well and you ?
i am on a school trip . brought some 4th graders . i am their teacher .	do you play any music ?
10 . after a swim , we are going to play monopoly . board games are the best !	three boys , ages three , seven , and nine
my parents are helping , too . they used to teach .	no . i just do it for fun . what do you do ?
later this evening , i am sneaking away to catch up in concert . my fav !	absolutely ! what grade are you going to teach ?
a band . semi vacation . my favorite way to spend vacation is at the beach .	yes ! they are my favorite .
i will do anything to go to the beach ! and i love kids .	what is your favorite board game ?
oh , yummy ! sounds good right now !	i love ice cream , its my all time favorite , i make it too !
cool do you like pro wrestling or not .	you will be fine i was only 17
well that is to bad , i am a wrestler my self !	why did you break up ?
cool i like him to . that is why i workout all the time !	lol . . nothing is wrong with that
speaking of fish i made some yesterday . while volunteering at the homeless shelter .	i volunteer at the local homeless shelter making meals
no ! but i would like too do so one day .	sometimes i volunteer there . what do you do ?
you hike before you go to work ? where do you live ?	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
i should travel more often i really like having people around me .	yes many people around all the time .
sounds fun . maybe one day !	no , but i watch a lot of their wrestling . i have always wanted to go .
i am tired from waitressing all day . you ?	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
what did you do all day ?	hello , am doing good . what about you ?
as your job or as a hobby ?	i love singing too ! i sing in the car on my way to work .
oh nice . i grew up riding motorbikes with dad and i still do it today	yes . i never got to do much , i had to start work at a young age .
i enjoy country music too	i sing 80s and earlier country and 80s rock .
young by kenny chesney is my favorite , also wagon wheel and amazed	i like country music alot
one of those smart people who always wears a helmet on my motorcycle ?	i do like music ! i like country !
haha well i have to protect my pretty face and large dark brown eyes	yeah , man . . . . everyone has their own way of doing things , ya know ?
i guess country . i like walking my german shepherd , barnaby on trails .	i am from cali . . . have you been ?
very cool . we had a grey cow when i was a child . i love grey colors .	i have two dogs ! they enjoy running around my farm
when i was young . then my dad went to be a nascar driver .	yes ! and farms i grew up on a big one
right on . i work for the post office . what do you do ?	my dad sold cars for a living . it was tough growing up .
that is cool . do you enjoy it ?	i work at an office job .
i drive a grey ford taurus .	i drive a truck with 4 wheel drive . i can barley see over the wheel .
i do . mostly top 40 and alternative .	i do not i just listen to a bit of everything
country music is good also .	i love music like county
very good and how are you doin ?	hello i am fine and you ?
that is always tiring , have dogs myself	fine and how can i help you ?
wow i have two dogs and one cat	so many pets ! 5 total
i will keep that in mind , you have any brothers or sisters	do you have any siblings ?
only child , i have 4 siblings one brother three sisters	yeah me to i grew up with three other siblings but never traveled
yeah mostly especially with my brother	yes we grew up together so we are kind of like sisters
we are from alabama so big roll tide fans	yes sometimes if i am watching sports
hi , that is nice . i spend my free time gardening and walking outdoors .	i have a little dog , you ?
cool . what kind of cars ? i am a school teacher .	i love dogs , i have two of them .
i teach elementary school . 3rd grade . i also have a dog . do you like dogs ?	i am a teacher . how about you ?
i have a golden retriever named sally .	i have a dog . i really like all animals . what is your birds name ?
they are very nice dogs . i enjoy taking her on walks .	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
maybe so . do you sell watches ?	yea hopefully i can find something as close to work , i walk currently .
very nice . maybe i will stop in sometime .	no ! i am a shopper . you ?
i do enjoy shopping , as i think many women do . i must get going now .	love to shop especially for gifts .
nice talking . have a good day .	it was nice talking to you
nice i am in love with taylor swift	you have me cracking up carl ! are you married ?
that is funny , i do not get along with my wife	yea i love all of that too
i am getting married after winter , time for an upgrade	they have a good sound . i believe in the good fight
role playing is fun for everyone right ?	well , its nothing interesting like gaming , i can tell you that
well i have to stand out right ?	live action role playing it awesome
i am kind of a big deal	we love call of duty games
i am the greatest ever	yes very much so , you would get along well
well you just do not know yet	it says no more than 15 words
i do not like to read .	no , i like to keep it to myself
do you play video games ?	do you play any video games ?
that is cool . i play a lot of games	sure do have two myself . you like gaming ?
how far along are you ?	never played it . not big in playing video games . anything else about you ?
congratulations ! where do you work ?	i am getting married in 6 months
i make jewelry at home and sell it online .	i do not work right now i just play video games
oh that is great ! i love to be creative .	that is an excellent profession . for how long ?
how fun ! do you like music ?	that is creative ! i wish i knew how to do it .
sounds like my kids ! ha . . stay at home dad here , have to laugh somewhere .	what kind of work ?
i bet i am sorry . it is an interesting job choice .	do you work at the church or are you just a member ?
i stay home with kids now , prior was in human services .	i am a teacher at a preschool .
i helped families to learn how to live together basically !	i work for operation blessing and help kids
oh no . is your life a horror movie ? i love those !	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
ohhhh yikes ! that can be purchased at home depot . my dad used to work there .	absolutely . but it is lovely to watch .
do you own a farm ?	do you enjoy fixing trucks ?
hi . i am a little league coach . i have 5 sons and a mini van .	do you follow baseball at a ; ; ?
yes , and therefore i drink a lot of coffee , it is my favorite . what is yours ?	they are both in sports so its a lot to handle . but they are wonderful boys .
i like to have wine some nights on occassion as well .	i drink a glass of wine every night for stress
what kind of job do you have ?	i drink a glass of wine every night for stress
that is not such a bad job . it sounds fun .	i am still a college student
but at least you get lots of fresh air .	sounds like it pays really well . i feel like i need to find a better job too
ah , yes . i have never kayaked . is it fun ?	do you have any family , kids ?
very nice . i must go now . have a lovely evening .	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
bonjour , i am kay . i am also trying to get out of debt .	that sounds cool . i was always terrible at spanish .
you and me both ! i cannot play , but sing fairly well . i am looking for a guitarist .	do you speak any other languages ?
you might be my man . or my woman ! i sing oldies . think james taylor .	i speak two languages , french and english !
i am sorry ! do you play in your garage ? i consider myself also a francophile .	maybe music will help them learn a new language .
ok , that will get you some exposure . any paying gigs or crazy fans ?	i speak two languages , french and english !
bathrooms provide great acoustics ! so do corridors !	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i have been there . also sang french and spanish songs on a street corner .	i speak two languages , french and english !
i love the spanish songs that josh groban sings .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
hey , george here . lets be friends	yes , do you want to say anything about your family ?
i do enjoy it , as a bee farmer	no i do not like it .
awesome . i really like papaya , my favorite food	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i have zero family that i am close to , lets be fam	i am good how are you i like french fries but i love chicken nuggets
awesome . i love dogs they are the best	no dogs do not do so good around the cats . cool name !
awesome , well with dogs you can not go wrong	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
i play shows , record music , and read	i like to garden and travel
its like radiohead , or slower rock	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
i am a geek , because i love programming study for it now	i am doing just fine and yourself ?
i am doing good , and you ? i also teach swimming locally	do you want to get a job in that field eventually ?
that is fine , do you like death metal music ?	its just a hobby , but hopefully one day it will be a profession !
i see , i am from india and you ?	yes i love all genres . what do you like
do you like eighties music ? i love it .	no , i do not have any pets .
no , i had a dog and a turtle in the past	i like all types of music .
yeah , i love those bands , you like hard stuff ?	no pets . i swim fast though .
i do not want to talk about my pets	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
what happened to you ? why ?	is there a reason for that ?
why do you get to leave	i am sorry to hear that . how are you holding up ?
are you passing away or something	that seems unfair to put on you
what did you do to get in there	i am not sure what that is . i am sorry .
what did you do last time	why not ? did sumin happen ?
why did you do that	i work in a mexican factory making little mexican bobble head that break fast
that must have been embarrassing	i think it was faked
i am sorry about that	i did not say i did not belive
oh , i just like gardening .	nice . i like cooking and gardening .
that is cool , i got a job just now in a gas station	you should cook for me on my boat
i had a spiderman comic as a kid . my adopted parents gave it to me .	i had my first job when i was a young kid .
clowns do not though , they scare me .	my parents , i am too old for it .
no , but my dad keeps setting me up on blind dates .	no i have a dad he died when i was in my twenties .
i did have a traumatic experience about that .	no it is not you . it just popped in my head .
yeah , until then , keep those clowns away from me .	i know . its for you silly clown .
i am doing good how are you ?	not too bad , how about yourself ?
i am well thank you . i got brand new job today ! i am a life coach	hi , i am doing well and you ?
wow , i love our soldiers . thank you for serving our the country !	what branch of the military are you in ?
how nice ! that is a wonderful cause .	do any of those affairs involve saving animals ?
animals are wonderful . as a cancer survivor , my cat was always near me .	that is great , i really like spending time with my dogs and helping out at local shelters .
i love green . i just bought some green shorts to wear to a marathon .	blue is a great color . i like red too .
blue is nice . i wear blue sweats when i run . i love running , strengthens me .	blue is a great color . i like red too .
nice ! my parents are both very athletic . they encouraged me to stay fit .	fun ! you sound like you enjoy sports . me too . i like to run marathons .
hi good thank you . i am wanda , age 60	hi , i am great thanks , and yourself ?
that is very good . i work in a library . how about you ?	as long as your under 50 , i would say you are doing good !
good for you ! i love traveling . . . do you like to travel ?	i do not currently work .
twitter is fun , yes . ever been to spain ? i have .	i love to travel ! i have been to europe and mexico . where do you travel ?
that is a good thing to do . do they work well ?	you would love it , it is a good place to retire .
no , neither . i will probably retire in several years , so probably will be lonely	i am married . no kids though
kind of . . . but i am 60 , so i do not know how realistic it is	yes . sure . this day , last year , my husband died .
aw you are nice . . . i like your way of thinking	exactly . haha i should look into that
awesome ! my parents are taking me to disney world again this year . every year !	i am going just fine , and you ?
do you let your kids play on the playground ? i do that . it is fun !	i am going to look for disney movie , maybe an old one .
that is so cool ! mr morris , my third grade teacher , we have a class dog !	can you watch my two dogs while i go to disney ?
when i grow up , i want to sing the songs that i love from frozen .	yeah movies are pretty cool ! i love animated ones , especially disney and ghibli
i want to be famous , like mickey mouse . he is my favorite . i love disney !	do you like disney movies ? i love them
do you sing songs from the frozen movie ?	i love watching disney movies !
my parents said that karate is a sport . i take karate .	i like to watch it but not play it
visit spain in my free time when not working as a librarian . you ?	work and i stay in the library
how wonderful ! i may move there in a few years when i retire .	that makes you in your 50s !
yes ! i am in a group for planning and stickers which seems silly at 60 .	no but i read a lot . are you a reader ?
aw ! what else do you like to do ?	i had a german shepherd once , they like to herd .
i love it ! we have an old farmhouse but only have cats .	i volunteer at urban farms so i can definitely help .
he sounds like a sweetheart .	i bet you are very tired !
watching the grand kids grow up , hot teas , holidays . you name it !	i really should travel since i will be retiring in 6 months .
it is ! i love this life .	i would love to have kids some day . any grandkids yet ?
hi ! just finished my mega dose of twitter today . how about you ?	yes , do you plan on going ?
no can do on the playground . too busy surfing the net all the time !	ll possibly ! its hard being a student with 5 kids .
are you male or female ? women rule the world , you know !	yeaaaahhh ! ! ! ! ! oooo ! ! ! i want to though . it would be fun ! ! !
no mickey mouse here he is a he ! besides , gotta pay for my solar panels .	sure , my parents will love it !
roof . make sure at disney you only eat organic . that is the way to go !	yes each family member owns a seperate house .
good . only buy organic , because its good for you .	i always shop online .
have fun ! and stay safe out there .	you should try ! its great to get into nature , really peaceful .
i will think about it . but i have a feminist march to attend later .	well i guess online friends are friends too . no judgement here .
i am doing good , how about you ?	i am good just working on my car and you ?
cool , what is your favorite type of music ? mine is country	hey , i am doing good , how about you ?
that is cool , classical is nice at times . what are your hobbies ?	what do you do besides work on cars ?
what animals do you have ? i enjoy working on vintage cars ; i won two mustangs	well i run a lot and take care of my dogs you
awesome ! i own 2 dogs , love them	i have an old mustang that i fixed up myself .
precious and sammie . what are the names of your animals ?	their names are oingo and boingo
oh wow ! twenty ! that is a lot !	name all of the animals , alison smith . one of my fads
i love animals , always have . they are amazing	i know right ! ! i am so into it ! ! i am also fan of country music .
hi good morning , of course what is the secret	why would you like to be a dog ?
oh wow you are like a super hero , i just want to be a dog	i have been doing it since i was 13
i want to be a yorkie . . . i like chocolate candy too yummy	a pug called tiki ! haha , i am not a people person either . prefer dogs .
i am a girl and i like playing with my blocks they are so colorful	no , i think you owning a yorkie would be more weird .
oh wow they are so much fun i want a lot of legos when i turn 5	those are cute . we do not have little dogs .
i love that , i want to play blocks and sing	sounds like a lovely childhood . no free candy for you
i like paw patrol because i want to be a dog	not really , with a 7 year old in the house , its a lot of cartoons
i like marshal he is awesome , adults never understand what i am saying lol	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
hi . that is an interesting combo ! i love cars .	good afternoon how are you
that is neat . where do you work ? i have a great work at home job .	do you watch a lot of tv ?
that is cool ! i go to the gym a lot with my girl friends . they are great !	i do not know much about that as i work from home . what do you do ?
i am lazy though sometimes . i love binge watching tv .	busy person huh ? that is not a bad thing .
i love narcos ! better call saul is a favorite of mine as well !	i love him . he is the best .
lol ! i guess you could be . i am not sure that all would agree though .	yes but i love meat .
they should be more understanding . my boyfriend and his girlfriend are sometimes really judgemental about food .	that is not true ! you will find someone !
i am . it is interesting . honestly that is horrible ! that poor cat .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
but . . . . . the poor cat .	i think that means we have something in common . lets date .
very late night here . i am good . how are you ?	hello i am fine and you ?
dance is medicine . painting used to be mine . what danger were you in ?	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
i am so sorry , but so glad you were both rescued and are safe .	were you impacted by the hurricane ?
as a woman and a mother of two , i am so sorry , but glad that stopped . too .	i am sorry to hear that . do you have any kids ?
i do not take it for granted .	i would love to visit there . never really traveled , guess we wo not now .
i am happy for you that you get to enjoy what you deserve .	its a place where you buy food and other items .
have you tried fries with melted cheese ? !	i know it is great . what is your favorite food ?
comfort food if ever there was one !	yes i have . i have to be careful of the ingredients though
that is to bad , where is your family	that is our business ? i am not sure how i can help you .
what do you do to pass the time	where is your family from ?
do you get to go to school	i read sometimes . i work around the house , kids and pets you know .
very funny , do you get to read , i find it relaxing	haha that is one reason to go i guess
do you get to exercise	yes its a way to relax .
what are you going to do when you get out	i liem that and spending time with the family
i like to walk , at least 3 miles	i am a professional basketball player
that sounds like a good idea	do you have a family
i am cool thanks . you ?	i am well . busy day at school . how are you ?
nice , i live with my folks too . only in grade 10 here .	are you in school , high school or college ?
study biology and practice running long distances . how about you ?	i am a college student . i run on my free time .
that is the best . i do that whilst i do homework . my grades rule !	i enjoy listening to music !
rock music , it is good to work out too . i want to train people .	classical , rock , classical rock . ll . music is great for the mind .
physical therapy , helping the injured and disabled . it is my calling .	right now been trying to training twenty different animals ,
food is important , health is too . you are a farmer ?	its good to support childen in their goals .
very cool . i will run a marathon someday , like my father did .	yes , i am in high school
healthy for a 40 year old car salesman .	hi doing great , how about you ?
wrestler ! wow you must be fit and healthy .	good , i am married , are you married ?
financially , i can not afford a gym . the money gets spent by my wife .	i am just a stay at home wife . my husband makes the money .
great , i hope you do not get to see me there .	you definitely want to get on top of that , for sure . are you married ?
between wife , job with no money , i am thinking now of divorce .	absolutely . i really hope your situation gets better financially .
do you give demonstrations of your skills ?	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
wrestlers and actors are in same category , i think .	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
i am well , i just finished rehearsal . i sing country !	hi , i am great thanks , yourself ?
i know ! sadly , only people who are in the industry for a long time know that .	who is your favorite singer ?
i like to play guitar and explore national parks !	i play it in my freetime . i am an aspiring singer so hoping to become famous
what kind of diets have you tried ?	risky business all the time !
that is alright , as long as you are passionate with what you like !	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
i like rascal flats , they are my favorite band .	not as much as some people . not my passion .
they sang life is a highway in the movie cars !	they are so much fun ! ! i used to listen to them wen i was younger
i see , what are some of your favorite movies ?	have you seen that movie ?
that sounds like a really fun time . i was just meditating	hey that is good . you do a lot of yoga ?
i am buddhist , my spiritual journey relaxes me	hey that is good . you do a lot of yoga ?
i quit my job to devote more time to my spiritual journey	do you enjoy teaching ? i always thought it would be quite hard work .
i have not spoken a single word in three months , this is the only way i communicate	that is awesome ! i would love to teach dance one day also
it is easy being in alaska , there are not many people around	i am also a buddhist
you can , i do enjoy meditating under them	yes ! i have been there a few times , nice place
that sounds like a spiritual experience to me	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
hi i am eating shawarma for lunch ! its my favorite	hi , its going well and you ?
that sounds good too . what do yo do for a living	are you in the military
wow a gold medal that is great . i am a in the canadian army	are you in the military
i really like american football . i am a steelers fan	i never played any sports .
that is cool . what event did you win the medal in	i really like college football .
when i am not working i am exercising and spending time with family	just graduated school is fun . these games are fun to pass time .
i use to workout like that but i became unhealthy from it	where did you attend high school ?
i did not eat enough to handle my workout so burnt more than i ate	why do you choose unhealthy diet dear ?
i am doing well . how are you ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
what is wrong ? my wife is a doctor if you need help .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh , are you still in high school ?	you should stop doing that . get a dog .
i hated school too but i became a professional tennis player .	but the cost of school is so high .
oh , so it is the people , not the academia , that you are having a problem with ?	no , i did not know ! where do you live ?
oh , wow . i wish i had that problem when i was in school .	school is not the only important thing in life . they should understand that
why ? redheads are beautiful ! we keep on having red haired babies !	i am not much of a dog person so i do not think we would get along .
i had problems in school . when you get older it does not matter .	i need a dog that generous , are you married ?
now i own a three storey house with the love of my life , our babies , and my dog .	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
you will . probably better . just keep working hard and do not listen to them !	thank you ! i think we would get along well
hey ! good , how are you ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
how old are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
40 from ny , how about you ?	i am from california , and yourself ?
i hear ya on that . what do you do for a living ?	i am in ohio . what do you do for fun ?
oh cool . i sell cars , really dislike it . not much money to show for it either	i am a car salesman ! what do you do for fun ?
i do but my wife takes it all unfortunately	yes . i think it will be fun .
i will be leaving her soon . are you in college ?	have yet to find the man . just got divorced actually .
i am sorry but do not worry	nope , i am 32 , i just do not want a job .
hi ! i just sat down to listen to some classical music .	hello . how are you doing today ? i am good .
being a christian i also like christian rock . do you like to read ?	ah , music has always helped me see the finer things in life , would not you agree ?
never been there . i love to ride on my tractor . i love the outdoors .	read a lot so would have time to study .
i do ! i am very different from my sister . she is a pole dancer in a club .	i love the outdoors and camping
with a campfire and cast iron pans .	i do not cook at all , so i will start with the basics .
i just purchased a beautiful red sweater . red is my absolute favorite color .	i would like to cook for you sometime .
i love to crochet ! it is time to start thinking about the holidays !	are you christian ?
i never used a loom but will have to try sometime .	i know ! let us continue to pray .
hello ! i am lonely . how about you ?	hello there sweetie . i am well . how about yourself ?
i am the only one with superpowers . others do not understand me .	because i am a girl . i could imagine it does
i can make time stop . have you ever wished for this before ?	what ? yes ! we need to be more on top of it .
i like to because although i am a small girl it shows my powers .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i can . does getting married mean you do not feel lonely ?	i wish , but no .
what else do you need to accomplish ?	absolutely . you sound like an ambitious person .
that sounds very exciting and busy !	education . i hope to get a job teaching kindergarten .
i am still very young .	i am 22 . . . . do you work ?
well , i have really short hair and it is blonde . how about yourself ?	hey ! i am doing fine , how about yourself ?
it is freezing outside , i enjoy wearing skinny jeans and leggings . and you ?	so what do you like to wear ? i have 5 pairs of the same pants
oh wow , me too . my favorite shirts are flannel ruffle sleeves and any nirvana band shirt .	yes , i just strap on my boots and hop on . love boots .
sure , i have super computer that i enjoy playing video games and listening to music on .	maybe i should try that sometimes . what kind of music do you like ?
of course , it is the wallpaper for my computer	what would you say your favorite band is ?
yes . what music do you listen when driving your rolls royce ?	yes because i am so fit , it makes me feel confident .
i love listening to dolly parton , with the top down so everyone can listen as well .	i swear lol i listen to him still
in my online role play game i always run around streaking , so all can watch and admire .	i only love music bands and have a full wardrobe with the band tees
i am only 4 years old . how old are you ?	lol ! yes , i can see it !
really why ? my birthdays are great !	it is great for any age . do you have any animals ?
that is sad . just get anew one . that is what i do when i loss a doll .	sad indeed . you must get a dog ,
yes i have a turtle . i love him .	i have 4 dogs , 3 cats , fish and chickens .
snaps he is a snapper . whats your fishes name ?	the names are one , two , and three .
my friend who lives next to me has a dog .	i also have a turtle name george . do you have pets ?
blue . me and my best friend play dolls a lot . what do you do ?	it is my favorite color . what is yours
yes her name is mel . do you have a favorite class ?	i do considering i have 4 girls .
hey there ! i just got back from one of my dog agility classes .	evening , i am well . yourself ?
it went great . my dog did awesome . what do you do ?	its going great here , how about with you ?
the obstacle course for dogs . i compete with larry my border collie .	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
ah too bad ! i work at a barnes and noble . chemistry grad .	i do not eat any animal products myself . i do love books though .
oh man . that is terrible . you grew up with no mom .	she was ? has she passed ?
wow . bad luck . do you dance by any chance . weekends i do .	oh . i am sorry she is not healthy .
i never dress up . always casual . fashion is not important to me . how about you ?	nope ! a liger ! just kidding , you are right .
well , it has been different chatting with you tonight . so long .	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
i am wishing i could go out with my friends but mom and dad will not let me	hi there just got home from work .
i want to move out so i can have fun with my friends whenever i want	in a place far far away , you ?
like your pets ? or are you a furry who dresses up ?	i like animals , might do something with them for a job .
when i have extra time i work at burger king . its kind of gross	i like cats over dogs , dogs nasty .
oh are you a vegetarian or vegan ?	that has to suck . pets are like people .
i am more focused on my friends . i do not drink or smoke like they do though	yes . i keep to a vegan diet .
i am only 19 but definitely ready to move out on my own	ahahah . i bet ! its not all that fun
why do you get blue around the holidays ?	it is blue , what do you do for a living ?
good , just got home from a run , its my favorite thing to do .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
my parents got me into running , they are very fit and trim	we should watch game together .
i am online some but like to be outside prepping for my marathons	what game are you playing ?
i just started as a life coach , i could help you get motivated	did not school start already for you ?
do you like to cook ? i do so i can eat clean , its important .	i am trying to make money running marathons .
frozen food is bad , full of nitrates .	i do not cook much , i enjoy eating out . do you like sports ?
clean eating is the way to go , you heard it from your personal life coach !	do you run marathons ? i am interested in doing one myself .
be positive , you can can do it . do you like walking outside ?	lol . you would be on a healthy dehydrated food diet .
my name is eduardo and i am thirteen	my name is mary , how are you ?
that is not ok , my older brother used to do that	what is your little boys name ?
wow lol ! stick to sports ! i play soccer !	ahahah what do you play ?
that is not good ! practice your balance !	i play soccer on the weekends
lol that would be really funny to watch	i actually miss playing soccer
lol , what is his or her name ?	soccer is fun , i played when i was little .
no i just own a giraffe his name is earl	i like to play soccer alot
interesting names ! how did you come up with those ?	yeah but he is smart . i am to forgetful to do it
hi i love to eat donuts while driving in my ford pinto .	video games is one hobbie . also being an amateur cook . how about yourself ?
yes spanish do you play games ? i like call of duty	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
no , but i roll play on the weekends	we love call of duty games
brown with pink dots , do you got a favorite band ?	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
my favorite band is insane clown posses .	same as ll but in spanish ! !
no what is donut in spanish ?	same as ll but in spanish ! !
haha to funny . i once ate 12 donuts did not feel great .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
soda and candy was playing call of duty heavy .	i had one before . was good to me .
i am good how are you doing	great , how about y o u ?
that is always nice are you in school	i am fine , got my 2 mile walk in today
yeah i am graduating high school this year	no time all i do is study
yeah i want to go into physical therapy	no , i am just trying to study
yeah what do you do for a living	just make sure u study enough
what do you do for a living	in school i always get good grades so i can reach my goals in life
that is cool do you like it	i go to college right now
lol the perks of the job	are you in school , high school or college ?
yes , i have played chess in the past .	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
i love animals , how about you ?	i have two boys and had five siblings growing up , it is really fun
not at the current , moment .	yes i do i have 3 dogs .
i live with any animals .	no , i do not have any pets either .
i do not live with any animals .	i have three dogs and love animals . do you have pets ?
maybe in the future , i have to think about it .	we are thinking about getting a dog .
chess is a tough game to play .	that is a good idea . most people love dogs .
hi i am well , what is your favorite food ?	hey , i am doing well , you ?
oh wow i have never heard that before . i eat kosher only	fine , more tacos for me .
i have taken a second job as a stunt double , it is fun !	i am a fiction reader
i like robots a lot ! i just read about one in a book	aw , i wish this was for real
oh cool ! i just finished my twentieth book this year !	video games are very cool !
i have watched many streams when i lived with my dad	wow ! you are talented , for sure !
oh i am sorry about that , i only had one parent	that is mean ! who taught him to say that ?
well we could go to the movies if you like	sorry , a lot has happened in my life
i am good , i just made a huge pot of paella . how are you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
i love fresh veggies ! although , i am a sucker for a good fish and chips !	i eat very healthy . mainly veggies .
i am in college , i cannot keep a pet . do you like to travel much ?	i have 2 dogs !
i understand . i am an art major , so i live for the summer .	i like to travel , especially to europe
weekends , i am usually busy with school . on my long breaks though , i visit europe .	i travel to town for work every day except weekends .
most women do shave . my favorite country to visit is italy . what is yours ?	what is your favorite cuisine ?
i have never been there . perhaps some day . do you travel alone ?	it is beautiful . have you ever been there ?
i enjoy sailing very much , i am related to columbus , so its in my blood .	i enjoy traveling as well . do you have a favorite color ?
how are you doing today	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
how many dogs do you have	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i have one dog and a cat	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
yes . my husband and i just had our first kid .	no i am still single you ?
we had a boy named taylor	i agree , my shiatzu has a blue tail . i dyed it cause blue is my favorite color .
i work in a vegan restaurant	i am a college student
that would be really great	i spend most my day walking dogs . i take care of them for people .
do you have a large family	i do love animals they are great company
doing dandy . what are you doing right now ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
just baking some cookies for a light night snack ! i love baking cookies !	i work at a deli counter . how about you ?
oh wow , my doge just came onto my lap .	hmmm . i buy dog biscuits every day . you own a dog ?
a shiba . his name is gabriel .	i love dogs , i have two of them .
that is pretty cool . what do you do as a hobby ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
ahhh . well , i love to knit , my grandma had taught me to knit since i was little !	i am a nurse . what about you ?
well , when i have spare time , i always help out at the county wide bake sale .	i do not work . i just bake and take care of my kids . . . you ?
same , i try to present the cookies i can to the sale .	i can cook anything but when it comes to baking i am not so good .
hey lets get to know each other	hello , i am fine and you ?
i survived a battle with cancer	well i like to grow food and have a good local supply .
it was not that bad	it is not bad , how about you ? where are you from ?
yes i get high off chemotherapy	yes . i like to eat .
i am a eater who is clean	me neither actually , alway prefer to stress eat
i completely agree with you there	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
i love to run and participate in marathons	you must live in a larger city . where do you live ?
its a must . got to keep the cancer away	i am also very health conscious
no , i have a real job and a 2011 degree from yale	i love biology . they help a lot of people .
hey , i never said that ! i am from manhattan , i am used to that .	i am a wealth management consultant and an ivy league graduate . whats your pedigree ?
yes , i graduated from yale at the age on 9 .	yes i have a degree but in this economy it does not mean much
my parents are bankers , they are training me to take money from helpless goyim .	no i was single child and inherited huge wealth
i keep my pet monkey bobo in the trunk of my bmw	yes , i have two cats and 4 dogs
it is ok , i feed bobo cats . it is the circle of life .	no . i would like a cat , but i am allergic . do you have pets ?
that is a good question . my family was generally humorless .	everything outside basically haha . and animals .
doing well , just got off of work at my new job at the gas station .	hi , i am great thanks , yourself ?
it is a job for now . i really prefer working with plants and gardening .	yes i do . where are you located ?
how long do you have to stay in the center ? my parents would kill me .	i sometimes wish i could be that way .
my parents adopted me when i was young . they were older and old fashioned .	the parents were not too happy but it was super funny .
that is awesome . are you scared there ? i am so scared of clowns .	i wish my mom would do that with me . she is too busy .
maybe you can date when you get out . my dad tries to get blind dates for me .	yeah , i suppose that could be scary .
i have not gone on one yet . he just keeps trying to set me up .	i think that means we have something in common . lets date .
congrats ! do you use twitter a lot ?	oh boy ! well , i am 35 and single !
i never got into twitter , probably because i am a little older than 30 .	are you married ? any kids ?
i can be sometimes but mostly facebook . i post a lot of picture of my dogs .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i have two dogs . do you have any pets ?	i have two dogs and one cat .
it is , but i am single so i do not mind spending the money .	my pets are two dogs .
where do you live right now ?	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
me too but it is hard being in a big city when you do not drink .	i do not live in a big city , and i travel a lot .
it is , but i have other hobbies like playing chess .	you should not drink a lot , its bad for you
i am great because taco tuesday is coming up soon . are you celebrating ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
you seem like a very positive person .	como esta how are you
i know what you mean . i just recently lost my dog .	all i know are the stories i have been told . its been rough .
yes . my sisters and i looked for him everywhere but we never found him .	sad indeed . you must get a dog ,
congratulations ! that is great ! is it a one story or two ?	when did you get him ?
wow ! no way ! what are you going to do with all that space ?	yes it is . i could live off of it !
oh , of course . i would build an indoor swimming pool on every level .	i would not have energy for that !
maybe you can build a waffle bar on one of those floors .	haha ! what kind of dog do you have ? i love dogs .
i am talking to you from my ping pong match on break .	how about you ? you ar
yes it is . more money for my chocolate bars i love so much .	no . do you play any other instruments ?
yes . because my real job is teaching violin and guitar in chinese .	do you like music ? i can play the electric violin .
my father , who is chinese , might can get you a job as an electrician .	i have heard it is a tough business to break into . do you play any instruments ?
good . i talk chinese so i would teach you to talk to father .	you might try turning it into a career .
yes i can teach you that .	yes , i teach guitar , violin , etc . i play several instruments actually
oh i was too . in chinese , guitar , and violin . ping pong too .	i have always wanted to play an instrument . i do not have the patience .
i am feeling a little lonely .	hello , i am fine and you ?
i am too young to know .	yea i am sure its not .
from my view , there are not a lot of people out tonight .	www . . . its okay . have you tried finding out who they are ?
no , unless you count using my superpowers .	nah i do not have time for hobbies . i get paid too much to not have a hobby
i have the ability to make time stop .	i like to go to the park and cloud watch
no , i have not learned how to yet .	no idea . i wish i had a good plan .
it would be nice . i like to stop time when i am feeling stressed .	well , hopefully you can figure that out soon .
i do not go shopping very much .	i would rather be shopping . what do you like to do ?
hi ! what country are you from ?	hey . where are you from ?
i am in the us . i love my dogs and eating .	in in florida , you ? got any pets ?
that is awesome ! congratulations ! i workout a lot . do you ?	oh my word ! they must keep you very busy .
the treadmill is my favorite , that and the rowing machine .	i like to work out myself .
good , we need good teachers	which school do you teach at ?
i have to since i eat all the time	it is pretty good exercise .
he has a child from a previous marriage ?	normally before a good meal like that , i head to the gym .
that is common . i would like to have children in the future .	he is . are you married ?
it is cold here too , where are you from ?	where are you cold at right now ?
oh wow ! i am in colorado , i am outside a lot too .	the canadian rockies would be cool . and not too far from u . s .
i mostly hike when the weather is nice , but too cold now !	i have several . you know commercial trucks ?
i love farms , i am behind a desk , since i am an engineer .	do you have other animals on your farm ?
maybe i try to get the stress out by rock climbing after work	i guess i would have to say that i became an engineer and i enjoy that
i do . what do you like to do ?	i really like to hike . i enjoy the outdoors .
if i had a truck , i could take my lab trooper all over everywhere !	i also enjoy listening to country music .
yes ! he is a black lab , would hang his head out the window .	what car do you have ? we just have trucks on the ranch i live at
nice , majority of my time i am on facebook	how many children did you have to leave at home ?
like on tv ? i am obese and unhappy	do you believe in god ?
i would love to hear more i work at a retirement home	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
thank you for that , you are what you believe ?	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
so , i should be able to lose weight ?	faith can be a beautiful thing .
i feel a lot better hearing that	i have prove it to myself because before i was really fat .
i want that , i have struggled for 10 years	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
i am going to start this positive thinking	i can understand that . god thinks you are important .
hi have you watched element animation yes i am fine	i am doing good and you ?
it is on y o u t u b e	are you working while in school
were do you live . a no	yes i work from home
how old are you and same for me	i understand that . i am in school right now .
congrats to you i am 11 working on my mom account	i am to old for that 25 this year
to earn money for myself . i hate drugs do . do you play games	just make sure u study enough
yes what your name mine is z a d e n	mostly video games . how about you ?
oh my mom says that i can not play them that they are bad for me	i play a fancy fashion game .
guten tag ! i watching some food network .	hi i am good and you ?
that is good ! i am still finding work from my move from germany .	do you have any pets ? me 2 dogs !
that is cool . right now , i spend my time with my hobbies roller coasters and skydiving .	ahhh , i see . lol good job ! when do you start ?
i am too ! my partners love to go swimming , but i am awful at it .	yes that is never fun .
i prefer my roller coasters and thrills .	besides swimming i like to cook .
i am less than a novice swimmer . i excel at drowning .	haha awesome ! that seems like it gets in the way .
that is interesting . what was the bet ?	how did the accident happen ?
ah . that is a tough bet . i do not follow sports .	i do not remember it was so long ago lol
i am from chicago i do tours at the museums	i am doing well . where are you from ?
o ok what do you like to do	well i can not say that i blame you there
i would love to do that but being partly deaf i do not know	i like to sing , do you ?
i am single my big collection of books at home keeps me company	lol i guess it adds up why i am single
yes they are whats your favorite drink mine is fancy tea	i love to read books lots of books
o ok well what do you like to do ?	yes ginseng root and chia make good tea
well make sure to make time for something fun	work and i stay in the library
well i hope it only gets better from here	what ever keeps you busy !
bugs bother me but scorpions are the absolute worst	yum . i like chocolate chip cookies best .
i like grey it is the color of my room , my car , and pretty much my life	i do not think there is any such thing .
bake sales have people . i work for the post office , it keeps me away from people	i am the pastry chef in a restaurant . i have made map cakes .
in to conspiracies ? nascar drivers , like my dad , say their owners are aliens	is it on me or is it on you ?
whatever . where does death by scorpions fall on your list ?	it is unclear what you are referring to . do you drive ?
death is not so bad . it is grey and a lot like working overtime	you said , nah . what does that mean ?
my mom knitted me a grey and brown scorpion once . i hate her .	i like to use my hands and thread . crocheting and knitting . you ?
where does getting stabbed by knitting needles rate ?	haha ! so i take it you enjoy knitting ?
hi , do you like to travel ? i love spain so much .	hello , i am fine and you ?
i am fine , how old are you ? i am 60 .	i have two dogs and one cat .
i work as a librarian , i do not get to walk much which i really need to	you have dogs too ! they are my favorite animal .
spain is a country that i had been for six times .	oh since your in the olympics and all , that makes sense
i love to collect olympic key chains from all over the world when i travel	i have never really had the need to travel there . heard many stories tho .
why not ? maybe you do not like to travel ?	but my first goal is to visit all the places of the world .
would you like to go to spain ?	i would love to travel the world some day
i do suggest spain , the place is really nice with great people .	i hope to travel the world some day .
i am from , orlando , do you like to play with dolls ? i do	i am from boston , ma
that is cool , my best friend next door dances alot	my best friends son has a turtle . he is pretty large now .
you were born in somalia ? are you still there ?	that must have been an exciting life
good , if you like it here . do you have any toys ?	i live in the united states
i do , thanks for asking . do not always put them away however . . . what do you do ?	no , no pets . do you have any ?
your culture is diverse , all i have is a turtle companion , how did it work out ?	part time doing odds and ends . are you married ?
i think i will try dancing with scruffy , my turtle	we learned square dancing in school last year . . . i had to dance with a girl !
do you have a job ?	your husband is a pet ? that is so funny . lol
one time i had my lighter set too high and my mustache caught on fire	hi am doing well . how about yourself ?
but i later found out the russians hacked my lighter and caused that	oh no . i would help , i was raised buddhist and that is what we do
i use to work for the cia and i caught a russian spy , not personal	oh no that is not good !
man a horse can kick you so hard , you go flying	i am also a buddhist
i am not saying it was aliens , but it was aliens	i was also raised as a buddhist .
ask not what your country can do for you , but what you can do for africa	did the establishment pursue legal action , or simply ask you to pay ?
i live on the moon	i do travel some i go to india quite a bit .
one time i had this old peanut butter and i used it to seal my car engine	i have been there . it is pretty nice
hi i am doing good . was just reading a book trying to relax .	fine fine how areyou . read any good books lately ?
how long was your walk ? everyday i walk three miles .	do you like dogs ? i have one .
what else do you like to do ?	if you have a dog , it would help you both out ! you can walk slow too .
that is nice . i like to spend time with my family as much as possible .	i have a dog . we go for long walks in the park .
i am a stay at home mom . i just love taking care of my family .	i work from home how about you ?
where do you like to go when you are off in the summer ?	i love to read before i go to bed . it helps me to relax .
i cannot get enough of disneyland ! i love mickey mouse !	i live in canada at this time .
it is always so exciting and magical !	i love to travel . i want to go to canada next .
yes , i have a job at a nursing home and on facebook a lot .	sure , tell me a little about yourself
i have a son who is 8 he lives with his mom , she left me .	well that is a little hard with 5 kids .
yes he does , even though i do not really believe in god .	i know , hopefully he will change his mind for the sake of the children .
how cool ! mickey is a pretty cool dude .	you should maybe give the baby to an orphanage and take you wife traveling
that is cool i do not go to parks i need to lose weight .	we went to disney . next summer maybe not .
oh , i am not a very happy person i would just bring everyone down .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
well maybe i will plan a trip with my kid next year .	it is a beautiful place . do you have any hobbies ?
oh that would be cool , i hope he love us both though .	maybe he will make it stop ! lol
michigan , i broke my arm	remember ? are you older then ?
i always wear a hat , no meds	hi ! no that has never happened to me .
my favorite skateboarder is rob dryden	oh no . but does that help ?
no , he is like my friends all skateboarders	no i drink just water .
yeah would be bad to see skateboarders drunk , huh ?	i drink water most of the time .
city life is the best life	i would be a little more worried about getting kicked , haha .
yeah , holding a pizza , it was pretty cheesy	no , tell me about it .
it sure , your favorite toppings ?	its really delicious is not it ! i like all kinds of pizza .
hi my name is jessica . what is yours ?	hello , what is your name ?
i work at a restaurants called panera	i am a freelance artist .
its ok . i am a cashier . i like the people and managers are really nice .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i like to go to the gym .	i mainly go to the gym and play racquetball . what about you ?
no . i just like to workout .	i am a personal trainer . how about you ?
i am actually an artist .	i need to start working out .
well , not yet . i am working on it .	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
hi ! i see things . . . a lot .	hi there how are you ?
i am an alcoholic , but i am recovering	huh ?
i am from the farm but i am now in the city	i am sorry , that is not something i can do currently .
i hate shopping . i let my girlfriend do it	buy all of the things i never had
i am not a big fan of expensive stuff or care about material things	i go to concerts on every weekend that i can .
are you a teenage girl ?	aside from loud partying sometimes , i guess ?
this is honestly so funny	i go to many concerts and party
i am kind of sad because my ex dumped me for a lawyer , you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
that is awesome that means you are very open minded .	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
nope , i prefer to stay inside , i am a recording engineer and own my own studio .	i love sports . of course the game on
awesome , how old are you ?	i make hot dogs for a living .
i am 46 yrs old i live in california and i have 46 kids .	i am 45 , how about you ?
i hire multiple baby sitters to take care of my kids , i am a single dad .	i am a freelance artist .
i have to do work a lot to take care of my kids it is actually draining	i agree but my dad says i have to work for it
when they all turn 18 i will be happy , lol .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
i am good but i really do not like school .	hello ! i am good and you ?
i am 12 and the kids pick on me because i have long red hair .	i took classes when i was younger , but they thought i needed more
i like it and my eyes are bluer then any of theirs .	red , ha ha . but seriously , do you know the sesame street song ?
arizona . where do you live ? i play video games when i finish my homework .	i am from pittsburgh area , in pennsylvania
what is that big word shawarma ?	i am in canada . what about you ? i would like that
what is that big word shawarma ?	is a chili corn dog on a stick ?
oh , i like burritos a lot .	well i like to play video games .
i like to ride horses and play softball .	mmmm yes its very delicious
very well . cookies sound awesome . just jamming to new kids .	i am well this morning thank you
my home would be the dance studio . i still take weekly lessons .	like the lil b cooking dance ? all the time . swag
my favorite is old school hip hop though , do you like to dance ?	dogs are good animals and so friendly .
do not think much about that , even though i was born in the early 80s .	yes ! and dancing as well .
yes , but i wish i still had my lite brite doll from when i was a child .	yes ! i absolutely love to cook as a hobby . do you go to school ?
she was my favorite , along with new kids on the block . you ?	yes ! they are my favorite .
those are great also . dogs are probably my favorite animals .	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
yes , we have three dogs and a few fish .	yes , i have three dogs . they are my babies .
i am alright , just hanging with my dog charlie . what about you ?	hi i am good and you ?
nice ! where do you work ? i am a music producer .	i work part time as a music teacher . you ?
wow , that sounds very exciting . do you get hurt often ?	ok . i like to listen to music while i work .
definitely . what kind of music do you like ? i prefer rap .	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
i work with all sorts of artists in the musical field . what is your favorite food ?	i like all types of music .
i work with all sorts of artists in the musical field . what is your favorite food ?	i really like seafood , pizza , and barbecue
that is so unfortunate to hear . my favorite is pizza !	i love veggie pizza a lot .
that sucks , but at least there is a lot of variety with pizza !	i like chinese , you can get it delivered
things are going well . i just flew back from the afp conference .	hi , what are you up to tonight ?
the usual pomp and pompous . the key note speaker dragged on about banking regs	about a month ago it was .
not too many yale degrees there though , the industry is degrading !	maybe i could help since i do financial business ? !
manhattan is starting to feel the chill but i am used to it .	its pretty humid .
you just have to have drive and it does not hurt to have rich banker parents .	i am sorry . is it money issue ?
have you seen my new bmw ? it is a limited edition model . what do you drive ?	you must be very wealthy .
oh . so , have you heard that chase is having liquidity focus groups ?	i have a ford mustang , do you go to school ?
trade leaders are feeling the pinch and want disguised bailouts .	i am in the financial sector you ?
cash is king baby , cash is king !	hmmm . i teach financial business classes . you ?
not if the banks have anything to say about it . they will crush that tin market .	i have invested in bitcoin . not a bad investment .
already in the works my friend . they are infiltrating and will derivative it out of existance .	they are virtual currency . very lucrative . i often dream of being eaten by my money .
see you at the next fundraiser , this has been fun .	it is ! thank goodness for loans .
i am well . and you ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
agreed ! still feels like summer . i build homes and welcome coolers temps ,	very good with this great weather . how are you ?
yes , i love what i do . what type of work are you in ?	yeah , me to . not building stuff though , ha ha .
i m a cat person myself . five to be exact . also like hunting and fishing .	i love cats , i am volunteering at an animal shelter
do you like the outdoors ?	what do you like to hunt ?
most any type of outdoor activity , attending sporting events , reading , and cooking .	i like to hike and camp out
a good steak or fresh crab legs . do you like seafood ?	i love mexican food most .
i do . about 13 miles to the beach .	i live on the west coast what about you ?
hi i am a christian man , i can drive tractors	hello , how are you ? i am good , thanks .
no my sister used to , helped her become a pole dancer	no , i have been on the road for work .
my tractor is red , i listen to classical music on it . i enjoy classic music	she is an artist . she paints with my favorite colors , red and blue .
how are you this evening ?	i do not like to drink as well
yeah i am its a fun job	i am a construction worker , u ?
hope you have a great night !	it is the best job ever .
yeah , just waiting for it	yes . i feel like it is fulfilling though .
yeah , so is the artist pink	yeah . i think red is relaxing . it is a great color . the best color .
pretty good . i am doing some reading of psychology journals . you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
nice . used to listen to them while my parents were making me camp out	for who the kids ? some of them already went an graduated
are you a 90s kid ? me too	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
definitely ! now that i am in grad school i wish for the simpler days	i know right ? i remember those days .
it is pretty exhausting . not as tiring as kayaking though wich i love	yeah i am learning about the discipline part now
yes i can survive off the grid for weeks if needed thanks to mom and dad	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
i can totally help you survive the end of the world	i agree ! do you listen to any music ?
i think studying psychology helps me understand why my parents act the way they do	i am not sure what you are talking about , but yeah , go ahead
just here at my house in michigan with my boyfriend .	i am from california , and you ?
i love to go for walks .	yes , i love biking and hiking
no , just me and my boyfriend here .	yes , i have one dog , you ?
i make clothes and sell them .	i am a scientist . what about you ?
walking is something i enjoy .	i like to spend time in nature . i hike .
probably going to thrift stores .	yes , i love going on walks and enjoying nature .
fun toys for my nieces .	lebes fashion shop . www . cafepress . com lelesfashionshop1
anything fun and cute , lots of vintage stuff .	mostly vintage ones . they can be pretty pricey . do u collect anything ?
hi ! names betsy and bought our first home	hello there sweetie . i am well . how about yourself ?
i work as a teacher in a school . and also have 2 step kids	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
wow that is pretty nice . i recently moved to the us with my husband	you got kids too ? they can dance with me and play with mr . zoom zoom .
that is pretty cool do you like it there ?	unfortunately all of my family is on the other side of the country .
yeah like new york maybe ?	i do not . i prefer cities to the country .
it is more like the suburbs if you know what that is	i live in new york city actually
well i did say i will be popping out triplets in three months from now	no , not really . my kids keep me pretty busy so little time for hobbies .
yeah and have 2 step kids too .	aw , just wait for grand babies
no but i would love to get one	no , only the one . you ?
nice ! when i wear my motorbike helmet i do feel like a super hero sometimes	no , i admit i do not .
i wish i could but i cant . do you have a motorbike ?	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
why did you choose pink out of all colors ?	i could recover the seat color though , in pink
i am a girl too but mine is red with a blue stripe and its super shiny	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
cars are not as much fun as bikes though	hers are blue , is that okay ?
mine is super fast . no peddling required at all . maybe you need to upgrade ?	my car is all leather but i want it to go as fast as my motorcycle
you just have to negotiate harder with them	sure , my parents will love it !
hello i am almost 40	you will be fine i was only 17
i teach the kids various instruments	do you play any instruments
congrats on that that is cool	do you play any instruments
oh wow so you will have a big wedding and reception ?	i want to play music for a living . do you like music ?
oh yeah that is a fun part of the party , are you going to have drinks too ?	yes . i like to eat .
i would definately be getting my dance on	yeah i love making all the different drinks
its going to be a day to remember with lots of pictures too !	org you are ? i totally want to dance with you !
oh wow that is going to be very memorable	where is your family at
hello ! i have two dogs at my house .	yeah i have a a dog that is getting a little old .
i know . once one of my dogs ate a whole batch of chocolate brownies .	well chocolate cake would send me running for a gym ,
that is good . what do you like to do for fun .	wow ! a dog would be great to join me in my workouts .
that is fun . i like to play with my dogs and go to the gym .	i love to go to the gym and play games
my dogs names are lady and nina . what would you name a dog ?	his name is rex he is a hound dog
those are really nice names . i really like them .	yeah mine is a little yorkie . small dogs suit me because i am short .
yes i love to sing ! i can sing a lot of songs . can you ?	i always sing songs very loudly .
well that is the most important song because it helps you learn .	yes , especially when they sing !
really ? who does not like chicken ? even chickens like chicken .	i am a meat and potatoes type of gal . you ?
hmm . . . i thought about nursing after my chemistry degree . . glad i did not	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
yep . i peddle books out of a bus now love it	be is no good unless its a college degree . ll
hey maybe i have seen you . i dance at billy bobs country line on the weekends	oh my ! i would never have time for that . work , work , work !
are you the one in the orange jumpsuit ? and the ankle bracelet ?	no not according to this .
ok . weird . oh well . i have to go feed my dog	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
my dogs name princess pei pei she just won a blue ribbon	i have a dog . she is the only animal interaction i have .
she loves to compete . a real ham . agility classes	she is very pretty . do you date ?
i am doing quite well . how are you ? what do you do for work ?	i am doing well thank you , and you ?
i am a tour guide for the metropolitan museum of art . what are you studying ?	i am a full time student
i remember middle school . do you enjoy reading ?	i am still in school .
i love to read . i have a library filled with books .	yes , more time for doing things you enjoy . i like reading myself .
yes , most of my friends are into horticulture . are you interested in plants ?	i have a lot of friends , more than you .
i love growing roses in my backyard . what are your interests ?	no , its how i make a living . gardening is cool . what do you plant ?
i understand . do you ever drink tea ?	i love planting flowers and watching them grow
i love drinking gourmet tea . jasmine is my favorite . what is your favorite ?	vegetables ? , no only iced tea , i only drink and eat iced tea that is it .
i am a tennis player professionally	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
that is pretty cool . excited ?	what can you be with that degree ?
oh dang are you vegan ?	i will experience that soon enough lol . any pets ?
me too , my wife is a doctor	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
she just presented the case and she is so healthy , so i switched	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
i go on walks with my dog to stay healthy too . what do you do ?	that does not seem very healthy . haha . i will have to go to one soon .
wow that is cool , i live in a big house . it is three stories	i work with horses . i feed them , clean them , take them for rides .
do you live alone there ?	i hope its very nice . and large .
hi , i am 12 years old and a girl so no cussing please .	i am fine , just got another a in school
none , i do not care for school at all .	i am still in school .
i play sports , i am in to soccer .	i cannot play anything . i am more of an athlete .
for school , and for pleasure . what else do you like ?	right now i just play soccer in a pro league .
what is your new position ?	i got a scholarship for soccer
oh , i do not know about that since i am so young .	i just got a new job .
i like dying my hair it is red and i do not like red .	it is very hard to work and still in school
blonde because it looks good with my blue eyes .	mostly primary colors like red and blue
oh no ! i am okay . just taking a break from reading .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
this week a parenting book . what are you up to ?	i am a huge book worm . and you ?
oh my goodness . maybe some self help books will be useful ? confidence booster .	a bit of light reading here and there , yourself ?
i had no idea you had internet access from jail . maybe volunteer when you are out ?	oh . hopefully you will find something soon .
i am a tour guide at a local museum . it helps me meet new people .	i am not sure what that means , but i wish you the best .
i love it . i am partially deaf so it is hard to find normal jobs .	so true . anything else interesting you would like to share ?
i do like the routine . it is comforting . what are you looking for in a new job ?	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i am good just freezing in alaska .	hello , i am fine and you ?
oh ok . its been hard lately to do my meditations since its cold .	is it very warm where you are ?
also , that would be in my interest since its been months since i have spoken .	i am buddhist also . fun fact .
just a normal ford . nothing fancy .	no not at all . driving trucks are my thing . where are you from
that is nice i bet it looks nice .	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
it is a wonderful place to do meditation .	i do all the time , no i have not been . maybe one day . are you religious ?
a pet cow ? that must be nice and interesting .	i am also a buddhist
i would love to see her do that .	i am buddhist also . fun fact .
hey , not here . snowing . i volunteer at a homeless shelter tonight	i am good , nighttime here .
yeah , but i wrestle professionally . and work out a few times a week	yeah . . i think i do it because i have to .
i like pizza , and i enjoy socializing . being around people	that is some good food for all classes of people .
if i got spare time i volunteer , do a lot of it .	i workout in the truck . i travel with my gym equipment .
awesome , can not go wrong with that	are you doing anything volunteer work for experience ?
yeah , well i hope all your dreams come true	i sometimes do not eat very healthy foods .
my family being safe and unharmed	you ought to go for your dreams and passion .
yea it sure is very much so !	you could volunteer your time , it would keep you busy for sure .
why is that . you should try to get along .	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
wow , that is insane . i have two very well behaved children and dogs .	that is our business ? i am not sure how i can help you .
so you know , i stay away from male clubs . i just watch american sports .	is that what you want to keep doing . i would love to do something with sports .
i have worked for the same company for more than 15 years . not time for much .	i like to listen to all kinds of music . i love them all !
not much to tell , i am an average male . tell me about you .	my line of work keeps me very busy , so it is okay .
red is not a boring color . my favorite sports team wears red .	even my vehicle is red . what do you like to do ?
well , my kids are usually outside playing with the dogs . what about your family ?	i have two girls . do you have a family ?
hi i love to dance , i take lessons every week	hi , how are you ? i am great ! i am studying for school .
yes , i work at a community college teaching music	i do , how about you , are you a full time student ?
that sounds cool . hopefully a bigger place	lol . i think that is great
my hair is a rainbow of colors . whats your favorite color ?	my hair is blonde heh silly
my favorite is teal . cant choose between blue or green	i love pink and baby blue
i do as mine are blue also	i like the crazy shades of blue .
playing with my favorite toy , my lite brite	whatever i have not decided yet , you know how it is
it was my favorite as a child	you play the music and i will dance the night away lol
wow , that is interesting . i am thirteen	dang cant make it i have class that day
that is cool . did you know i am on my schools soccer team ?	that is cool ! what grade are you in ?
nice ! i really dislike math classes	haha . that is funny . wish you were in my classes .
amazing ! my older brother does too !	do you go to many concerts ?
of course . when i go to school i take the school bus	you are kidding ! i am a huge fan !
that is better for the environment ! good for you	you should ride a bike instead of drive ! haha
you really do ! it is very important	yep nature is pretty awesome . the complexity of everything can humble a person .
i am good and you , are you male or female ?	hi , i am great and yourself ?
what kind of job do you have ?	hey ! yes , tell me something about you .
i had a condition where my heart was placed outside my body	i work as a chef
so i can now do things that i could not before like move things with my mind	i think it happened . do you not ?
yes it is very interesting especially because i am a young boy	ha ha do you have any pets ?
i am lucky to have had a transplant , so i am better now .	i think that is a great attitude
oh yes thank you , it must be nice having dogs .	yes understandable but you have to be happy with who you are
what is wrong with your car ? i am too young to drive .	is it a money issue ?
oh , you bought a car . thought you had to fix it .	i want a new car so bad
that is good . i wish i had someone to play with , boring being alone .	if i drove i would probably wonder that .
no one to take me to the gym or anywhere else .	there must be a way ! only time will tell .
8 , and i live in a cloud by myself	i am 27 , how old are you ?
well you could stop time like me before you get dumped .	why , seems like a waste of time to me .
who does not understand ? what type of cars do you love ?	they have a love hate relationship .
oh , what kind of cars go fast ? i am too young to know .	i like old cars better new cars are to expensive
i am doing good you ? just getting ready for tomorrow .	hi , its going well and you ?
not really , i stay at home with the kids , while my wife works . lol	it is great ! how about you ?
yes . i worked 10 years in human services , but my wife missed work .	i do not think i want any kids lol
i live in canada . yeah , she deserved the break . she works with my dad .	i used to be a stay at home mom but my son just moved out .
more so , i am close to the city . lol . whats your favorite movie ?	i used to be a stay at home mom but my son just moved out .
more so , i am close to the city . lol . whats your favorite movie ?	i love horror movies do you ?
saw movies . i love horror movies . do you have kids ?	i like thrillers and action movies
oh how nice of you . mine are 2 , 3 , and my oldest son is in middle school .	i do , i love kids , i have a toddler , he is 3
hi i am ready to retire what was your occupation	hi ! i am really good today . how about you ?
i am a tennis player what do you do in spare time	i am a freelance artist . what about you ?
me to i love long walks with my dog on the beach	i love to play with my dogs !
one of my 3 story homes is in the mountains i like cold	i like to work outside .
my big family makes mines hurt lol you have kids ?	yeah but snow is great !
yes one is in college and twins on the way	yes i have four young kids and you ?
thank you now i can not retire soon like you	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
duties always first do you travel much	you should not . or you should try living for yourself instead of for family .
it is going well how about yourself ?	hi , its going well and you ?
drinking coffee ? what time is it there ?	hi , its going well and you ?
oh i see , both of my parents are well off bankers	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
yes but they forced me to go to yale for finance	i am trying to get my ba in finance
i enjoy going for long drives in my bmw	i majored in finance to follow in my dads footsteps
oh no i am sorry not sure how to change that	i love pink , is that your favorite color ?
what kind of things do you like to do ?	well maybe he just had an aptitude for it .
what is your favorite game ? i enjoy video games	i do i like reading about business and finance
sorry to hear . it is my birthday today !	i watch tv all the time
no , no . i just turned 100 , believe it or not .	thank you ! i hope she says yes .
maybe i will just drink wine and dance all night in the moonlight . love it .	which holidays do you celebrate ?
of course . i feel so strong for my age , i might just live for an eternity !	that will get you pretty far in life .
gotta celebrate ! i am so old , i recall when nobody owned a tv .	yes ! ! i would absolutely love that . do you do anything else for fun ?
yeah , juvenile detention does wind back the clock .	i doubt that , i would rather watch tv .
red wine . it is good for the heart . try a cabernet .	i drink a glass of wine every night for stress
how interesting ! i like to rock climb , it is my favorite activity .	what do you study ?
i work as a mechanical engineer , i love my job	the blues singer ? i prefer classic rock .
i like them , my black lab trooper enjoys their music as well .	yes , i love them . they are calming .
nowadays it is rare to see any kids have them over here in colorado	i love em . what else do you enjoy doing in your spare time ?
what kind of dance is it ?	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
sounds like it is really fun !	especially to some kid rock
cool ! have you seen them live !	my favorite artist is kid rock he is so hot
oh , they must be a great band !	yes , i have seen several of them .
i live in hollywood . in a very expensive house	i live in nyc how about you ?
that is okay i did not either . i just found a boy toy to buy me nice things	you make a lot of money ?
that is very impressive ! what do you do in the army ?	you can always pay for it
what an honorable man . connections are all that matter in this world	military crazy life huh ?
hopefully being in the army is a good diet . i love to diet	i like to eat foods that are healthy .
that does not sound fun . if i go 1 week without caviar i would die	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
honestly its kinda gross , but it costs a lot which makes me want to buy it	i agree it is too high
that is why i love him	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
winter is very lonely though	true story , man . and this is our rainy month . though they claim that would be april .
cats are good but unsure if my bees would like	really ? even as a pet ?
great what is your favorite type of hat	haha i love cats ! i have 4 of them and 2 small dogs .
quite the collector my wife has as many heels	what is your favorite kind ?
love the games we root for italy	i collect them , as well
vanilla is a favorite , real gelato is my weakness	i usually get a vanilla frappe .
i loved tennis in my younger days	i like sports and yes do you ?
yes gigi and mary joe heck of a game	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i am not familiar with her music , i am only 23 .	no , i spend most my free time cooking .
no i do not . i travel a lot and take on odd jobs .	no , i spend most my free time cooking .
anywhere with delicious food . i am a big foodie , although i am a lousy cook .	i have traveled all over the world .
i love anything new . i try not to eat the same dish twice .	i like cooking exotic foods .
i actually do not paint . do you ?	i like to paint picture of nature .
i do meditate , but not as often as i should . it helps me de stress .	yes i do . i actually really enjoy it .
no i have not . what is that ?	i do not but i have thought about it .
not really i tend to walk the road to the nearest shopping mall ! lol	yes , i try to go most sundays .
unfortunately for me that means my home is filled with shoes and clothing . you ?	do you keep in touch with any family ?
you sound very centered . i like my life , my family doesn t seem to .	yes ! do you sell that ?
i like solitude too . maybe that s why i m infatuated with time and watches .	you sound lonely . it seems like its what you are designed to be .
isn t meditation just like napping ?	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
i have to talk . i work at a discount watch dealer . time out . heard of them ?	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
we ship anywhere . our motto is tick tick , losing track of time is sick	not many of them sell , but that is ok . i enjoy it nonetheless .
lol , i must go too . the imelda marcos shoe collection on qvc is on	oh yes , that is true .
i drive my boyfriends ford raptor .	i want a new car so bad
it is a truck . i blast old school rap when i drop him off for work .	haha why do not you like that song
i do not . i wrecked my mustang , and have not replaced it yet .	it is a older model , but really fast !
i take dance lessons . what are you going to school for ?	i would send my kids to your school .
what was your favorite toy growing up ? mine is the lite brite .	i am going to school for teaching . its what my parents do .
my dad built those . he still has them .	my dad sold cars for a living . it was tough growing up .
some of his go back 40 years .	do you want to have your own kids eventually ?
i am in just got in from walking my dog . how are you ?	i am well , so tell me about your family ?
will you be walking alone ?	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
that sounds fun . what do you and your husband do ?	do you live near family ?
wow , that is so interesting . i play pro tennis .	my husband is a detective , and he is gone a lot . i like to stay busy .
not really no just have to focus . hard to play being pregnant though .	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
thank you this , is my third . nervous about the teen years . is it hard ?	have one child myself and another on the way . ages ?
oh my , how old are they ?	well , the older the child the easier they are .
how do you handle them dating ?	16 now . the only set in our whole family .
i am doing great i just got an apartment	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
hmm would you mean live roses in a vase or paint them on the wals ?	what i would your favorite color ?
i wis i could grow stuff but too busy going to college	not sure i would like that ! what do you do for work ?
nope very small studio since i am going to college	yes especially my room . everything in there is purple . it is my favourite !
do work work there or just go to enjoy it . . ?	well , i must go ! time to study ! thanks for chatting .
nice you can exercise while you work	i would have to agree . do you work or are you school ?
not really i get my exercise working in a bar to pay for school	exercise is something i very much like though
i liked new kids on the block when i was a kid in the 90s !	hey ! ! ! !
i cannot dance at all . but i can wrestle !	i have been doing it since i was 13
i , being a professional wrestler , have broken a few bones . . .	oh i know , i just enjoy helping people . what do you do for a living ?
no , it is all fake . you only get hurt if you are not paying attention .	yes . i use to watch it but not that much anymore .
i see , do you take any medication for that ?	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
wow , so you like avoid certain foods or something ?	no . it will be used to help me take over the world . join me .
do you think it is working ?	i try to eat healthy .
i volunteer at a shelter . i was homeless once , i want to give back	i love to volunteer and help people
very well , now that the wife and kiddos are in bed .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
we have three kiddos , so there is never any ice cream in the house .	no , i have three kids and is happy married .
i tried hiding it in the peas , but my wife found it .	aww . i always thought it would be cool to have kids .
its easily done on the way to clients houses , plumbers are always on the go .	ha ha ! yes chocolate is a necessity in life !
we go on the way to the parks too , in the next town .	do they serve chocolate milk there ?
i do not . i live in the country , with dogs , kids and chaos .	nope not at all . just a small city . live a simple life .
that would be amazing . i love horses .	how long have you lived on a farm
i prefer animals over most people too .	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
hello . i am on a diet , so i am hungry ! !	hey , i am doing pretty well , you ?
i do , as well as spending a lot of time in my tanning bed .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
i have been told i am as high maintenance as britney spears , and we look alike .	are you married ? any kids ?
my husband is a cop , i do not work . only spend his money .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
we do not . thankfully , i would not have this body if i did .	no . . i have kids though
i work out three hours a day , i am trying to break into acting .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
thank you . we live in south florida , so it is stiff competition .	i wish you luck on that . any other hobbies ?
i am well . where are you from ?	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
i am from florida . do you have any family	i am in cali . have you ever been ?
my wife and i have two children and three dogs	i have two dogs and one cat .
we do indeed . do you like sports ? i love the nfl and nba	do you by chance like dogs ? i have one .
what college team is your favorite ? i like north carolina myself	well , half of the mlb are from overseas !
coach enfield is a bum !	the patriots . we all find it to be great fun to watch the games together .
yeah i think he will go down in this latest scandal	not much of a sports fan , but i know a bit . who is your favorite team ?
yes we do . mine are usually the best	hmmm oh wow . well maybe you need to confront him about it .
oh , hi you must be buzzing ? my dogs are afraid of bees .	i am just sitting inside with my dogs and cats ! ! ! ! ! !
no bees for me , it is a scary way to die . an allergic reaction .	i have a dog and a cat . do you have any pets ?
it is a healthy fruit . i love baked goods it is my heaven .	i have to watch out for ingredients that i might be allergic to
sorry to hear that . my mom knitted and passed it on to me .	that is so sweet ! is she sick ?
sure , christmas is near so scarfs are in the works for the family .	sure ! i wanted my wife to do it but she said no .
that sounds great , i always dreamed about my creations on the catwalk .	that is very kind of her to do .
there are very unique and one of a kind i will send you pictures .	we need something in our lives beyond cats and dogs !
that is cool i do a lot of walking as a kindergarten teacher	i think i would enjoy walking it .
do you do a lot of hiking ?	are you married ? any kids ?
oh what is your favorite book ? mine is the hunger games .	oh yes , i love reading . you ?
those can be very good for improving oneself .	what kinds of book do you read ?
i know what you mean , i am improving singing .	i agree . that is why i chose to teach .
recently i have been singing alot of taylor swift .	yes . i go kayaking in my spare time .
yeah , i feel like she has grown quite a bit as musician .	i am sorry about your mom . i can sing to you .
hey ! i am fine , thanks . just got back from work . how are you ?	hi good and you ?
i should go . i work at burger king , and the food is making me gain weight .	ok , do you work out ? my best friend is not here , we can work out .
cool , thanks ! my parents have a treadmill i can use , but i really want to move out .	i guess if it works for you that is ok . do you have many friends ?
oh nice ! and yes , i do . they are always on my back , though .	i have two dogs and they are my best friends .
i agree . i do not even drink , or do drugs , or anything .	yes . they need to figure something better out for that .
i am a pretty average looking 19 year old .	is he black , its my favorite color .
you , too ! i should probably get going , but it was great to talk to you !	i like you . . . i am going to have to look that one up .
oh , actually , i have a little time .	maybe we should be friends !
i am okay , i miss people , but i am not allowed on the computers .	i am fine thank you how old are you .
i am in juvie , they do not permit us on the computers .	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
my mom is visiting in the morning , it is the first time i have seen her .	do not you understand ? i do not care where you work . i will pay you .
17 , i took my boyfriends auto theft charge , he has a record , i do not .	i am 38 lol . do you have any kids ?
i do not type slow , .	the system cant count .
must be . are you having bad weather tonight ?	technology might find an answer to it
i do not know then . i was a hacker before i was sentenced to juvie .	with the storm i do not blame you . is it raining now ?
my dad taught me when i was young .	haha , yeah , detention would be pretty lame
hey , i am 8 and a big third grader that loves the playground .	what is your favorite movie ?
my friends and i sing the frozen songs but mickey is my hero . what college ?	no it is just for fun . sometimes we compete in disney .
disney world is my favorite place to go with my family .	i am a student so i have to study . what are your plans ?
i have a long time before i get to live away from home .	lol do you have a big family ?
a nurse sounds like a great job . i love everything chicken .	well i love fried chicken honey or no !
i wish it was not raining out so me and my friends could go to the playground .	do you like disney movies ? i love them
being 8 , my only worry is will the teacher catch the passing of the note .	it s my first year . i really like to watch disney princess movies
i bet you have a lot to worry about .	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
i am enjoying a burger and fries , you ?	hello i am fine and you ?
yum ! i love eating in my house with my boyfriend	ugh i am so hungry . how are you ?
but i never drink soda , that stuff is terrible for you !	hi , its going well . and you ?
i have heard soda makes your hair grow fast	i try to drink water mainly .
soda is also great for cleaning toilets ! !	i just love to work out !
working out is ok , kinda fun if you like that	yeah i believe that . i should try it some time .
i ride my bike to go get burgers and fries !	riding bikes can be fun too !
that sounds lovely . i work as a waitress from time to time for extra money .	i am busy studying . you ?
i love celebrating columbus day !	oh , that is interesting . that has to be good money .
i am not much into cooking . i do ride motorbike though .	i love to cook . do you cook ?
yes , it is a mixture of ingredients kind of thrown in one pan .	i do not cook , sorry .
i do like meat and rice , but i do not go for things like snails or oysters .	yep its the best dish in the world . so tasty and healthy
you are funny ! did you ever ride motorbike ? i love it !	seafood or worms ? lol !
well i do wear a helmet to keep from brain injury !	i am shocked that i admitted that .
well , i am hoping to keep my head !	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
terrible , there are scorpions everywhere . please send help .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i play banjo in the band i formed with my fellow postal workers .	that is good . keep up the great work .
why have you not sent help ? ! the scorpions are stinging my legs ! ree ! ! ! ! ! ! !	yes , i believe in that sincerely . how is work for you ?
dad i am sorry i did not support your nascar dream ! these scorpions are my punishment	i play music because my job is being a musician .
the pain from these scorpions is unending , everything is turning grey	i have the postal service playing right now .
i see the light , dad . i am coming . i will be in the passenger seat dad	i am sorry if i have offended you !
oh god why is there fire , why is there fire ? this is not nascar	i used to want to be a race car driver when i was a kid
there are scorpions everywhere ! ! ! seas of scorpions for miles in all directions ! ree ! ! !	race cars and tell lies .
so did i just came back from it and eating a papaya	are you in to painting ?
its my fave fruit . i do not have family close by	wow , how considerate ! thank you ! that makes me feel so happy .
names george by the way , and am married to a super model from italy	unfortunately all of my family is on the other side of the country .
no but i became a bee farmer	i enjoy gymnastics .
some times but that is why i wear the bee suit t	yes , especially when someone eats the way i have .
haha most do , which i can understand	yes i totally agree with you .
sure you can always purchase on my website	no i just really like a good deal .
we can go for a trade that sounds awesome	i can pay for you if you are willing to accompany me .
good . what is your job ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am retired and used to teach gym in school .	i am a teacher . how about you ?
i often volunteer at a local soup kitchen .	helping people , but that is pretty much all i got about myself .
i do not have any pets .	yes , i have one dog , you ?
i like cheeseburgers almost as much as you love your dogs !	i have two dogs and one cat .
i must be bold because i grew up in a poor household .	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
i like the music in the war documentaries that i enjoy watching .	i love music as well !
do you attend concerts often ?	i do , but not country !
good . tired . i had to walk my three dogs .	hello ! i am good and you ?
i do . i have not played it tho .	no . never heard of it .
oh very cool . i go on twitch for my pot farm updates .	yeah they share similar games anyway
no , the game pot farm .	no not according to this .
it is a cool game . i play it daily .	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
right on ! i own a dog walking service .	i have vere tried that game . can you send it to me ?
it is a lot of hard work .	yes ! ! i would absolutely love that . do you do anything else for fun ?
it is now . it was harder when i first started .	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
i am doing well . how are you ?	i am doing great , how about you ?
wow that sounds pretty . do you live with family ?	i am doing great ! thanks for asking . how are you today ?
cool ! my older sister lives with me right now .	yes you can start a internship online .
i love travis scott and playing basketball !	mostly listen to music . do you like music ? ! ? ! ?
you are correct , he is !	he is very talented .
my mom , who is a dentist , hates all of them !	o yes he is a great artist !
what is your dream career ? i am looking for employment at a restaurant .	haha very true ! what are some of your hobbies ?
wow ! that is a very lofty dream .	never give up on your dreams ! sometimes they just take practice
i am great today just bought my first house , you ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
happy for you , just making my meals for the meal , it is tough being an omnivore .	it is great ! how about you ?
i am trying to eat healthy because i am pregnant .	do you have any children ? i do not have any .
i do my best for sure , have twins on the way in two months .	i am happy for you . i hope my kids are happy in the future .
both girls ! i can not wait to meet them !	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
do you do anything else for fun ?	really that is so interesting . do you have kids ?
sounds like quite an exciting life you live .	not much time for hobbies since the kids keep me busy . you ?
i just want to live a happy life with my children .	i am surprised you find time for it with all those kids !
i survived cancer for 3 years ! ! i am cancer free ! !	hi , i am doing well and you ?
yeah sure ! i run marathons i am preparing one for this summer	do you run marathons ? i am interested in doing one myself .
that is awesome i am also a clean eater	oh okay i love to run i do not go to the gym much
no i have never tried raw diet before	yes , if you know how to watch diet , you will live longer .
no but i have a new job as a life coach	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
my parents are extremely athletic	i can run as a stress reliever
i started my new job yesterday i really like it so far .	i am a runner , i love marathons .
they are heath coaches	yes they are a lo of work
hi ! pleased to meet you . i am great , just baking cookies at home . my favorite hobby !	hey there , i am doing well , thank you for asking , you ?
that is so unique ! knitting is another deep passion of mine .	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
i hope to open a business . like the countrywide bake sale i am now at !	yes i am a dog lover .
no , i avoid chocolate in case my dog gets into my treats	cakes , muffins , cookies , cupcakes ! sugar cookies are my favorite !
i named my dog ralph . do you have any pets ?	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
that is so precious . how long have you had your cat ?	i have two dogs and one cat .
what a great gift ! i once gave my sister a goldfish .	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
yeah i live at a farm in colorado as well so i do not see many people .	i am an engineer and have been in two accidents
i work as a mechanical engineer , mostly on farm equipment and trucks .	haha , well , we all have our different talents on this earth , no ?
i do not listen to much music , i spend my free time rock climbing .	i like all types of music .
yeah i drive sometimes to my parents to see my dog called trooper .	no not at all . driving trucks are my thing . where are you from
he is a black labrador retriever , saved my life when i was a kid . what animals ?	we live on a farm , otherwise i could only have one each .
his name is trevor , anyway i gotta go soon , it was nice chatting with you !	he is a little white maltese .
see you later partner , good luck with your farm !	it was nice chatting with you too !
okay , time to part ways now , see ya !	well , good luck with that , my husband is an engineer .
i am good ! i just finished a book ! i read 1 every week	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
yeah ! and i really enjoy a good documentary	i do not believe i have read that . is it good ?
congrats ! i just started my new pa job 3 months ago !	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
that is good though ! i am about to have my first child ! i am pregnant	wow 3 jobs ! what do you do in your free time ? !
nice ! i just have my husband and we live in pa	congrats ! what an exciting time ! where are you getting married ?
interesting ! good luck with that !	well what kind of diet are your family that s awesome
thank you very much you too !	yeah , please do . . good luck !
hi . i live in the country , raise horse but i want to move to the big city .	what city are you in ?
i want to move to the big city and be a lawyer .	you keep saying that . you know i do not live there , right ?
i am so sorry to hear that .	i bet . i was born and raised on a large farm . i really miss it .
maybe you should change your lifestyle . start exercising .	i am so sorry , why do you feel that way ?
is there anything good in your life ?	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
well , that is good . do you enjoy the work ?	i like to keep a good outlook on life .
i hope things get better for you . maybe you should spend time with some horses .	yes , but it does not pay very well .
born and raised on a horse farm . spent my entire life with horses .	i want to get a horse . i love to go horseback riding
i am doing well thank you how are you ?	hello , i am fine , and yourself ?
how old are you ? i am in my mid thirties .	i am doing fine . and yourself ?
are you married ? i m single but i have two dogs .	that makes you in your 50s !
oh no ! that is why i just stay to myself . i do not like cheaters .	haha . anyway , do you want to go out with me ? i am single .
you should learn to play chess . i really like it .	i find that offensive . are you married ?
how nice ! do you sing ?	i love music !
that sounds interesting . i like to sing .	no i wish i could play music instead
hi , i just spray painted my hair rainbow color , am i weird ?	hello i am fine and you ?
yeah , do you like animals ? i am know to be a animal activist	yeah , do you like animals ?
let me guess , your grandfather was in ww2 ?	i never did when i was young , but now have a dog and 2 cats .
he was in ww2 , how old are you ?	7 he has been with me a long time , very loyal animal .
cool , i am too old for me to even say , what kind of car did you get ?	just turned 52 . life is good . . . mostly
cool , i spend most of my time watching birds with my cats	but was it a toyota truck ?
they are black and orange	yes , i love animals . oh btw my hair is green , my favorite color .
cool , tell me something interesting about yourself	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
how are you doing today	hi ! great thanks , and yours ?
i am doing very well	hi , its going well and you ?
yes and have two animals	no i am not .
they are cats . they do not like being outside	i do not have any dogs , but i have two cats . do you ?
that would be so bad	they made them for me . not too many people want to be around me .
well at least something fits	i like the pants you guys have to wear . do you have any pets ?
the olympic training and suh	i am a freelance artist .
yeah it is sometimes . yours sounds more difficult	i am a gamer and work for a video game company
haha nice to meet you larry . what kind of food ?	hello ! what do you do for a living ?
oh that is cool . i only eat organic kinds of food	i am employed . i would with food .
haha awesome . i use the internet a lot . especially twitter	i love to cook . do you cook ?
oh man its awesome . i am always up to date with gossip	how cool ! do you do it online ? i am a blogger .
well i am a bit of a feminist . and us women are about to raise hell	yes . pretty much everything is on youtube .
its def trump . he is a racist anti women anti god anti dogs , he hates rabbits	trump is making good money , wish i did .
yea us women are gonna go on twitter and tell everyone how racist he is	this is how trump makes money ?
maybe you should . i need a organic chicken salad so bad	maybe he will make it stop ! lol
i love listening to the who .	i love to travel and see different things
do you work a lot ? i work at a local supermarket here in ohio .	i do not blame you do you have any pets ?
are you able to travel ? i ve never let ohio .	there are a cool band .
yes . i want to go to chicago for black olive pizza . my fave .	i would love to visit one day !
my kitty spook . do you like cats ?	i like to go all over . i have been local most recently however . what about you ?
what kind of hat do you wear ?	dogs have way more meaning then a skateboard .
eh , not so much i guess .	no . i am pretty much a slacker . i just hang out , skate , and wear old dingy clothes .
yes i do . khaki pants and blue polo shirts . boring , but it s a job .	no , i admit i do not .
i am still learning to read english . i am somali .	sure , tell me a little about yourself
i do like dancing . do you have any books on dance ?	i think you just need a vacation . .
why were you in spain ? i was in somalia until my aunt help me escape .	i love to travel ! i have been to europe and mexico . where do you travel ?
spain sounds lovely ! in somalia i was being forced to marry someone i hated . . . .	i have always lived in the us . i have traveled to europe and england .
do not get me wrong , not all of somalia is bad , just . . . restricted . . . for women .	all those poor lovers lost int he storm , how tragic !
it all depends . some of us are lucky and it is why i live in the us now .	haha , no way . having siblings has to be great .
so funny ! i only found it a few years ago and it opened my world .	marriage does not exist in my culture .
hi mine is going very slow how is yours ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
having three dogs keeps me busying cleaning my house .	that is great . do you have any dogs ? i have 4 and they are adopted
it is a great work out .	i do not have that much time .
i am a homemaker you ?	i am a car salesman ! what do you do for fun ?
i thought i would always be a door to door salesperson as my father was .	no . i just do it for fun . what do you do ?
yes i do one of the reason i am in a poly amorous relationship	yeah , maybe that is why i cannot be in a loving relationship .
i love hiking or being in the outdoors how about you ?	part time doing odds and ends . are you married ?
i love to volunteer as well .	i prefer to get out in nature and hike .
hello , i am living mine as a life coach !	when are you planning to start
the custodian at the hospital where i did chemotherapy was very nice .	do you play any music ?
not unless it is sports related .	i am sure it does not . i am sure they are proud of you regardless .
i prefer metal . i do love rap too .	i like all types of music .
fruits and some vegetables , anything that is clean .	just about everything . i eat a lot
i do . i am a runner , i do all of the run disney races .	haha no . i want to be a professional eater .
they are . i like to dress up in costume while running .	haha , my father always said that pro sports are all scripted results
man i am starving ! can i tell you something embarrassing ?	i am good just playing some video games .
ok . the backseat of my pinto was filled with donuts . i ate them all waiting in traffic	hili am fine i no what you mean
then i ate another 3 dozen while playing dungeons and dragons	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
wait you own a house in miami ? that is insane ! expensive dude . hang on . i see a donut	we love call of duty games
what the heck ? this donut is as hard as a rock . dang it . a bulldog huh	we love call of duty games
i just licked the sugar off and threw it out the window you work in what ?	i do not currently work .
what the heck do you work in ? i found a soft donut ! my lucky day	i work and work and work , no one ever orders . what brings you in ?
i am in an insane band and do side hustles	i run a computer programming site
awesome me too ! what do you teach ? i teach piano .	hi , i am a violin play and yourself ?
i like the outdoors also , especially exploring new places that i have not seen before .	what do you do to volunteer ?
that is good ! i do not attend church but i help out at the homeless shelter .	i volunteer at the local homeless shelter making meals
that is nice ! i wish i had time ! what do you do for fun ?	i love to teach music to young children . teaching is such a great career .
awesome ! i practice my instruments , i play a few . i guess i took after my dad .	i love planting flowers and watching them grow
whats that ? violin , my dad was a professional . i guess that is why i love it .	i used to play the violin . its a hard instrument !
oh ! sorta like a venus fly trap ? those are neat .	yes , it is . i quite enjoy it .
i defiantly will ! its been nice talking to you tonight !	yes , there are crazy people everywhere . they will touch you .
hi i am doing great how are you today	hello , i am doing good and you ?
where do you work ? i do not work anymore i just stream on twitch	good afternoon how are you
that sounds like a good job . i used to design a videogame	oh , man . that has to suck . try to keep busy . got plans for today ?
are you still in school ? i was an engineering major	what kind of video games do you play ?
that is very smart to do . after i finished school i started avoiding people	i like to design things i work for a video gaming company
you will figure out what you want to do soon enough .	what do you want to do when you finish school
i am building a robot clone of myself so i do not have to go anywhere	i try to be a good person .
yeah i am very talented when it comes to technology i am even famous	well maybe not with this , i play games to forget about it
doing just fine . just pulled some cookies out of the oven . smells heavenly .	i am well just took some cookies out of the oven
oh man . i bet my dogs would love going hiking . just not my thing though .	i also bake , maybe some salmon or yellowtail .
i have a german shepherd named king and an english bulldog named major .	the names are one , two , and three .
i actually a professional baker . what about you ?	i work for a publisher .
i like being a baker . but i much prefer the county bake sale . love the competition .	that an important job , i love to cook and bake . do you have any hobbies ?
i have always wanted to visit colorado . is it as beautiful as it is on tv ?	oh . i like to rock climb .
i live in central virginia . lived here all my life . it is beautiful . but normal for me .	living in colorado , there is not much for me to do .
my wife , my dogs and my baking are the loves of my life .	i like to cook and bake as well
i just reached the age of majority , i can vote !	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
every kind . what about you ?	i love music . what is your favorite band ?
my favorite gospel singer is elvis presley . he looks like my pet fish	i like music . i also like animals . i have a dog and cat . do you ?
that must hurt . how old are you ?	because you are out on the water and have an opportunity to see the sunset !
a red tractor ? i love red tractors	i have a chicken and a rooster in my backyard . you go hiking ?
i just turned 18 . we should get married and drive a red tractor	i love the color red .
so am i . but we could go hiking and look at the sunset	really ? we are thinking about going on a hike or maybe fishing .
lol i wish your tractor was orange . then it would match my wig	the sunsets were beautiful , the sky and the water would just glow this perfect shade of orange
yes i do . where are you from ?	no i am in boston . you ?
that is very interesting . what do you do for fun ?	i am from california , and yourself ?
that is great . what games do you play ?	i play music , and video games .
i have lived in the persian gulf but i am from west virginia . what about yourself ?	no , all i like is grey , yoga , and writing .
i am glad you are safe . are you happy where you are now ?	i am also a buddhist
i wish you could have have a choice in marriage . are you sure you are happy ?	i was not raised religious , but buddhism sounds interesting .
i am glad you are living a better life . what kind of music do you listen too ?	for sure . are you married ?
sounds yummy , i am feeding horses , my lunch is later	i like salads do you ?
i have three horses , how many children do you have ?	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
not yet , just got married and pretty busy on the farm	yes , i have two and yourself
wow , complicated field that is changing everyday	i am currently in financial business . would rather teach music haha !
me too , lucky to be on the farm , do you find your health improved ?	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
great band ! i always have some rock playing while i work	love listening to music . really like the rolling stones .
not during harvest , my father needs full time help , you ?	i ride horses and and breed cattle
that is great , building a family takes time , good luck	i love to ride horses .
hey ! german shepherd ? i am feeling pretty crappy right now .	hello ! i am good and you ?
my wife spends so much money on those coloring books	are you married ? any kids ?
how long have you been married ? my wife and i are separating soon .	my father was a carsalesman . i turned out to be a very happy person .
i wish i lived in the boondocks but i have to stay close to my crappy job .	well goodness ! must have been a nasty divorce .
that sounds better than what i do selling cars .	you just stay on the farm ?
do you have kids too ?	i have 2 dogs . i could probably live on a farm !
we have 2 kids too and they like to spend all my money	yes lots of children , my wife cares for them at home .
we have a parrot who can be quite obnoxious .	no pets , but two sons are pretty much like pets haha
hello . that sounds fun , except i would move to the beach .	i think you just need a vacation . .
do you play board games ? they are mine and my kids favorites .	some places are dangerous . did you always want to be a teacher ?
skydiving is fun . i also like to go to up concerts , they are my favorite .	i like to spend the time in concerts . whats the kids fav . color in school ?
mainly documentaries . i am a fan of the walking dead .	i watch it all the time
hummus is great . i like the red pepper .	that show is hilarious , been a while since i watched it
i am a vegetarian , so i eat a lot of hummus as well .	i am not currently vegan .
my parents were culinary teachers , they taught me to cook .	we eat a lot of it !
hello . tell me something about yourself .	why are you making a robot
that sounds like a the easiest money every	what do you do for work ? i am an office in the navy .
that must be the worst	it allows me to save money .
so i am but i am not	yeah i love programming . it pays really well and i get to donate to charities .
do you donate to charity ?	you mean it is about saving a big part of your salary
college is a scam ya	yes , and i also volunteer in my free time
save your money , trust me	yes , but it does not pay very well .
what did you need the money for ?	it allows me to save money .
hi there ! one of my sons loves to skateboard !	i like watching baseball on television !
it is popular . i enjoy baseball , i coach one of my sons little league team	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
me too . hats are the best . hey , do you like to drink coffee ?	i think with more coffee you could do it
oh no . how did you break your arm ? ! ?	i brew beer and make my own coffee .
bummer . can you still skateboard with a broken arm ?	yes this broken leg is agitating !
my son hurt his wrist once skateboarding . comes with the territory i suppose .	ahahah i did that once but it fell apart
well i am off to relax with my evening glass of wine . cheers .	yup . i like the competition . same with sports . good competition .
you as well . love you too .	that is true or make some wine
congratulations ! i am still at home with my parents in texas	hi , yes , i am in college . are you ?
nope ! i have not even graduated high school yet	no kids i am in college engineering studies .
no but i do love to ride horses	nope but i would like to . are they beautiful ?
aw that is so wonderful ! congrats ! sorry you are broke though	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
haha i would not suggest it !	i have tried to break out into that line of work . keeping balances . bank reconciliations .
get famous ? i do not know	i am still a high school student lol , what do you do ?
lol no ! i have strong ethics . i am even a vegan	yes ! whats your name ? you like prozac ? i invest so one day i will be rich .
i just love animals too much and factory farming is horrible	we do not really do cash , maybe you would work for fresh eggs ? or goats milk ?
dude , like how are you , like totally ?	i am great getting ready to skateboard
i am not so good , was with my buds and cracked up the elbow , totally	so how do you keep yourself busy ?
my hat flew off while i was skateboarding and i lost it , i do not work	yes i work from home
it hurts and this cast smells like a dead monkey butt , seriously , what color hair ?	it stains your teeth , and is generally unhealthy for you
boarding and friends is my life , even though they laughed when i fell , no games	i play warcraft sometimes but its kind of dated
blondes have more fun , but only if they skateboard , who is dracula ?	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
wow creepy gray haired factory person , like in lost boys ?	well he tried to bite my neck and he was awfully pale
hi bob , i am mandi	hello . what are you doing this weekend
me too now that i have been fired and got a new job .	i am dandy . how is your day going ?
to each their own , but i believe he is .	good to know . are you leading a good life ?
i lost my mom at a young age	i am sorry , that is not something i can do currently .
sorry to hear that . i barely see my dad he is in the army	well , she passed away , unfortunately .
i do , good thing too because i am now selling insurance to companies	i love to travel but i do not have much money right now . do you ?
sure ! i am trying to lose weight too	that is true but money is tight with me not really working
that is interesting it must be rewarding	do you work as a nurse ?
i am 22 , i live in the us now , you	hi , i am fine how are you ? where from ?
you could get a car when you turn 16	have you ever been out of the us ?
well , you will be old enough soon	no way , can you give me a ride ?
that is nice to hear , when i was your age i was married	i love soccer , for reals !
no i am from somalia	i have lived in many states . how about you ?
no only my aunt in america	yes ! i have 3 sisters and 4 brothers . do you have any siblings ?
that is nice do you go on vacations	i only have traveled in the usa no other country .
education is important , make sure you get good grades	yeah we vacation every summer
i am well , glad to type to you . how are you ?	hi good and you ?
that is good . i am a spiritual person , are you ?	how much school have you completed ?
that is nice , i spend most days in reflection here .	i am also a buddhist
i believe so , the buddha has taught me well .	oh no . i would help , i was raised buddhist and that is what we do
i do not speak , i took a vow of silence .	are you religious because i believe in god .
it has been three months now . i love it .	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
thank you . i am on a quest to be spiritually strong .	i am also a buddhist
i sit in lotus position and chant for hours . are you spiritual ?	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
i prefer italian . especially garlic bread .	i like exercise , you should try it
that is interesting . what kind of sports do you play ? i like gymnastics .	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
most likely . yes , what is your favorite color ?	why not ? you should be more active .
i won a gold metal in the olympics as a gymnast .	it is my favorite season for the games !
i really like the color yellow because it reminds me of flowers .	blue is a great color . i like red too .
how often do you go to the gym ? i go four hours a day .	yellow is pretty , i love white
that is cool . do you compete in any sporting events ?	i do not , i go to the gym daily so its tough to spread the energy .
i do not like to play video games . going outside is awesome .	yes . sometimes . competition is good sometimes .
i am here how are you ?	i have a pet dog
i am good i am watching mean girls i love this movie	hello i am fine and you ?
awe i have a pug and a cat !	i have a dog and cat . i adopted my dog when he was still a puppy
right ? i party a lot cause i am single and bored what do you do for fun	my dogs are all pugs !
nice ! i do a lot of charity work like food banks do you ?	i am working out now , and drinking water
any fears ? i am terrified of heights	yes , i do that all the time , it really helps .
oh no ! i try to just live life and party right now !	that would be scary for me !
that sounds like fun ! i went out to dance over the weekend .	i do not blame you do you have any pets ?
what a nice gesture . i take my dog to compete in agility classes .	that has to cost a fortune , i feed my dogs organic , and that gets expensive .
do you ever dress them up ? i am not fashionable .	i have a dog and a cat . do you have any pets ?
i like forest gump , but i prefer books . i work at a bookstore .	i like romantic comedies or action movies .
i studied chemistry in school , and yes girls were mean .	you take them to class with you ?
no , but i did wear orange for bullying , but i hate that color .	i did not but now i know , i will tell my class .
me too . i am not fashionable , but i avoid orange .	it is blue , what do you do for a living ?
hi . i am good . how are you ? tell me about yourself .	i am doing well . how about you ?
oh wow . thanks for serving . i am what you call a trust fund baby .	if you were rich you would not be saying this .
i find that most charities are farce . i like to give directly	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
i love to spend and give , but i love to spend wisely .	i think it is important to know what you want to do before paying all that money .
so do you have any musical preferences ? favorite artist , etc	well it is better than most people . hopefully you make good money
i am into pop . moreso old school . do not laugh but i love britney spears .	i like r b as well . what are you favorite foods ?
i know she has this valley girl thing going on , but she can really sing	she is an ex singer from the early 2000s , mostly does pop songs and the like
fish and chips are my weakness .	seafood for the most part , new englander love a clambake
anything that is a documentary of christopher columbus , he is a relative .	i like all kinds ! what do you do for a living ?
of course . it is no secret in my family , especially among my european relatives .	no , tell me about it .
i used to cook paella for a kitchen in spain .	helping people , but that is pretty much all i got about myself .
it is a fish and seafood stew .	i am not sure what it is but i have heard about it once this year actually .
yes , i do . i painted a shrimp portrait for art school last year .	yes i like shrimp but not lobster .
very well . it sold for a lot of money for charity .	they did it as a class project
not very , i travel a lot and go to school full time .	yes , i have amazing friends .
i am doing great . i have been shocked	hi . i am good how about you ?
i work with electricity at work	i am good . . . do not think so .
what do you want to do	they think i take my job too seriously
i raise cattle and work	maybe you can become a vet , then .
in mississippi with my folks	cattle stations run different there than cattle farms in the us do .
well both i guess do you like animals	i work on the farm i live in the country
what is your dog like	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
bessie likes to do that too	my puppy is a golden retriever
i am just listening to classical music	hi there , i do not know what i am doing
what is your dog breed	i have two dogs right now
no i do not have any pets	i do not have any dogs . one tortoise though
i am sure they are	i love dogs , i have two of them .
i like to bike and read	i like to chill with my family and bake
no i do not like the outdoor that much	in my spare time i like to read books , and do you have any hobbies
i do bike outdoor	i also like to hike when it is warm
that is cool . i am grilling out today with i love to do .	pizza , pizza , and more pizza that will solve every problem
great idea , then we can go gambling which i always do when i have time .	i bet we would get along .
heck why not ? plus i need to cut the grass which i love .	maybe he will let you borrow one of his .
that is funny . i am soo glad i came down south for the winter .	i wanna play outside with mr . zoom zoom . come on !
down south where i have been retired for many years now .	i am from california , and you ?
maybe it will be possible if i will the big one gambling !	you could buy used ford cars . maintenance is crucial though .
that would be my pleasure !	sure , go ahead ! i am up to the challenge .
i would absolutely love that i need the company !	i would do that too if i was retired . it is a wonderful thing
i am good . i am practicing the hula .	hi , doing well and you ?
it is a dance , traditional hawaiian dance .	who is your favorite character ?
i am taking a trip there next month .	heck , i never even heard of such a thing . sounds sporty . is it fun ?
two weeks , i am excited . i love the beach .	well as long as it makes you happy then keep doing it .
where are you from ? not knowing the hula and all .	i like to go to the beach .
i have always lived in the us . kind of boring story .	i stay in the states for now , school keeps me very busy .
charleston south carolina . i have lived here my entire life .	new york city , of course
just eating , something i do when i am bored . what is up with you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i will probably end up going to the gym . have any animals ?	i am working , then going to the gym , you
in between jobs right now so you can find me on the treadmill or rowing machine .	i keep two canines as tamed animals
what classes are you taking ? using the time off to hang out with my two dogs .	like i need to work out more .
that is cool . i have never been that creative for something like that ,	what are you majoring in ?
europe is actually where i decided to get short hair . very chic over there .	i travel for it .
yes but it was very hard to keep up with . chopped it all off . what about you ?	no , i did not that is nice ! is that what you like to do ?
hello ! i am doing great thanks ! just finished some studying .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am studying art in college ,	studying right now , about to get my masters
i am actually a painter , but i am hoping to be an art teacher .	oh , me too . no , i do not think so .
i enjoy cooking , especially paella , and i like to travel .	i like going to art museums and theater .
mostly to europe . i go twice per year . christopher columbus is actually a distant relative .	i love traveling . seven countries in europe over last 20 years .
through one of those ancestry websites and stories passed down by my grandfather .	did you go to college before having a child . i did . i wasted years .
sometimes we forget famous people are the same as you and i . do you have any hobbies ?	what is your major in college ? do you like large paintings ?
well , that is a great way to stay healthy . awesome for you !	just as a hobby . painting , drawing , things like that .
hi , do you like taylor swift she is my favorite , what do you listen to ?	i should , no one sees me here at home . any plans yourself today ?
sure , i can talk to you . how old are you ? i am 24 .	all his songs are in english i think . ink i got a c in english .
yes zane is good too , in spring i will get married just to let you know	there is always time to learn !
ha ha , that is so funny , do you eat out with friends ? i do .	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
sure , your parents will have to take you here , i am also a teacher in kindergarten	nothing wrong with that . i love to eat too lol
that is a strange thing to say	neh . too much work , i am a student and a singer .
well , you do not necessary have to	lol that is true . what do you teach ?
you can learn to say something nice and smart	i am not sure i follow what you are saying .
hey , i am good thanks and you ?	i am good just watching a movie
wow that is a long session !	lol hows your day going
i am a stay at home father	yes that is a good way to stay busy .
oh nice , i love italian foo	not your favorite food though . mine is italian .
pasta , my son loves pizza though !	i like italian too . i think garlic bread should be served at every meal
do you have a favorite genre of movies ?	take out is great ! do you like movies ?
oh fair enough , i love horror movies	yes , i love horror movies
i am singing songs from frozen my favorite movie .	fine about to go to the movies . yo ?
8 in third grade . i like to play on the playground with my friends . you ?	i am auditioning for a big movie ! my first one was when i was 18 .
awesome ! have you ever been to disney world ? i go every year .	i also teach high schoolers . are you in high school ?
you have to meet mickey mouse he is my favorite . do you have kids ?	do you travel ? i go to disney world each year with family .
what games do you play ?	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
i like sorry and monopoly . do you have pets ?	super mario for the wii actually its my favorite .
yes i have a dog too . i live in ohio , where do you live ?	my pets are two dogs .
a german shepherd , what about you ?	i have a pet dog
i can see how that would bother you .	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
i have been working in construction since i have been 16 .	yes ! it is hard because their dad is dead beat . what is you profession ?
none for me watching nascar racing and ufc on tv is my passion	yes lots of children , my wife cares for them at home .
cool . talking about fav things , i love mexican food .	i play piano and guitar
lol , yes that is mexican food . what do you do in your spare time ?	what like taco bell or something ?
you just might do that . i love to watch television .	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
nice . do you work during the week ? i only work on weekends now .	i do like to watch youtube .
oh ok . so after custodial work , you will be a folk musician ?	just part time after school
i work at a convenience store if you want gas station food .	no , just cooking food all day
that sounds fun . i love gardening and eating fresh produce	that does not seem good for anyone . ;
do you have any phobias . i am deathly afraid of clowns ?	you should cook for me on my boat
that is a good fear to have . keeps you from killing someone	i tried a lot of new recipes
i would totally go on a blind date with you on your yacht .	you can still make it . i do not fear to die , so that helps me here .
you sound more interesting that the people my dad tries to get me with	that is very generous of you ! but we must be aware of stranger danger too .
i will , but he probably would have a heart attack due to his age .	we eat a lot of it !
i am 20 and he is 70 . i was adopted when i was 5 . he is old	i am 32 , how old are you ?
wow ? really ? i do not think it will work . . .	sure that would be awesome .
take it over with what ? love ? kindness ? or war ?	you might try turning it into a career .
that is not true , i like you .	for instance , i wonder if my job is really what i want to do . . .
visit ? they are probably just busy .	i do not have kids . i have two older siblings so i do want children .
looking for a job , like in a cafe or something .	i work at a restaurant . you ?
i would love to work at a restaurant !	i am with you on that . i am looking for a second job . what do you do ?
ya , tips are what i am really into .	that would be a great job !
my older sister has made 300 dollars a night in tips .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
hi , i am only 12 years old , so please no foul language !	i am well . busy day at school . how are you ?
i am doing good , but lonely , how about you ? are you in school ?	great how are you ? taking a break between classes now
yummy , i wish i had friends to eat pizza with !	is that part of school ?
all kinds , i do not like school , but like music class .	i like instrumental ; so many lyrics are so hard to understand .
that is cool ! i am unpopular at school , wish i was friends with rappers !	mine education is provided by rap artists .
i am a blue eyed long haired red head , you would think they liked me !	yeah i guess i just feel everybody is either too young or too old .
how old are you ? i am 12 !	many people do not care about that .
good for you , you must be smart and work hard !	how old are you ! i graduated high school not too long ago .
hi i am doing good . just relaxing with my pets . you ?	i am good just watching a movie
wow you must have been amazing ! all i did was party ! ! still do ! !	what movie are you watching ?
people still call me a party animal ! what other movies do you like to watch ?	ooohhh nice ! ! wanna add me to it . lol .
i think the best movie is mean girls . i watch it over and over !	comedies are my favorite movies .
i would choose anything over heights ! i am so scared of them !	you have a cat and dog too . is that what you mean ?
i would write about my dog and cat ! what about you ?	i feel like writing a story about you , would you mind ?
what do you do for work ?	well common over and party !
sounds like an interesting job	i work in education .
yes , we shall ! what are you up to ?	great well , gotta run , take care
i am listening to britney spears . i love her ! i am sorry to hear that .	and why are you sad ?
i demand a lot , high maintenance , so you do not want to date me !	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
i spend money like it grows on trees ! then there is the tanning beds , diets , etc .	pink is my favorite artist , and color .
orange is pretty . mine are red and purple . happy belated birthday !	oh dear , there will be plenty of time for that when you are old like me !
wow ! that is a wide variety of colors !	blue is a great color . i like red too .
do not you mean the sunrise ? i like to walk . helps with my dieting .	that would really keep up our hiking pace !
pizza , cake , cookies , ice cream , chips . but then i need to diet , a lot !	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
yes . my name is larry and i am a chef . do you like cooking ?	yes . i like to eat .
not really into coffee . i love cooking but also enjoy fishing . do you like fishing ?	not as much as every food i see
somewhat . i love comic books though . do you have a favorite super hero ?	not as much as i like eating , especially fish !
well spiderman has always been my favorite . did you enjoy playing football ?	i never played any sports .
his mysteriousness . do you enjoy being outdoors ?	never played myself but yes a big fan . you have a hobby ?
absolutely . i can either be found cooking or fishing .	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
yes has to be quiet for the fish to bite .	yes , cooking and life can be rough sometimes until you laugh .
i am great and just resting before i start my second job as a stunt double .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
what do you have planned for dinner ? kosher is the only way i eat .	ah , i imagine that is pretty stressful . but , must be very rewarding , no ?
is she a single parent ? that is the type of household i was raised in .	gotta get out an mingle its so fun .
that is good . do you read books ? i read about twenty in a year .	that is very kind of her to do .
are you very active ? i try not to be since i have never broken bones .	i like classical . it is very soothing .
awesome . i only do walking and light free weights .	that is good to stay in shape .
that is convenient and a great way to keep yourself healthy .	it is hard work . very tiring i think .
i live in charlotte , north carolina .	in a place far far away , you ?
i work at the bank of america . i like the work .	i am a freelance artist .
oh cool . do you have any kids at home ?	ah , you have a child . only one ?
so you are engaged to be married ?	yes , i have two girls and one boy . do you have children ?
sweet . is it going to be a big marriage ?	i am married . no kids though
weeding ? haha . no , i meant wedding . how many people will be there ?	you mean you are looking to have an affair ? just to clarify .
cool . where are you going to get married ?	i will be here all week . well , actually i wo not .
very cool . hope you have good food there .	i live in new york , i would like to head north to canada but i have never made it .
hi , tracy here , my children and i leaving for out house in florida .	i am doing well . where are you from ?
vacation ! today is football sunday . my dog name is snowbird .	not at the moment . do you ?
great ! it work wears me out . thank god for my chidren and my dog .	no kidding ! i travel all the time , for work and pleasure . maybe i will visit !
wow . all work and no travel huh ? you like sports ? i do .	that is ok . i do not get to speak it often .
i see . can i help with it ? what is your name ? you like dogs and children ?	i work and go to school , i travel a lot for work .
oh okay . how many kids . ever been to florida . our second house is in florida .	dogs can be a bit needy , though , unlike cats .
sorry ! i have been in it 15 years . what about you ? grace is our cat .	we are still married . i guess he just ha other interests .
that is great . i sing and i love baseball , football and soccer . you need singers ?	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
so if you are not a chef what is the show about ?	i have been cooking since i was young , so i thought i would addition for a cooking show
that is an interesting name . i sell insurance for a living . boring .	like a professional chef sort of thing ?
i am vegan and people love my vegan cooking .	my parents , i am too old for it .
that is nice , i have never been on a yacht before .	haha well it definitely seems worth it ! what do you do for fun ?
yeah , that would be awesome . but i would buy something more practical .	that is a good plan , i sell car insurance
haha , it is definitely attention grabbing !	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i really like thai food	chicken nuggets with the special sauce .
have you ever had any egyptian food ?	sounds good . i love thai food .
i am sorry , i cannot help you there .	i try to paint anything that catches my eye and hold my interest .
no . i work in a shipyard .	i paint a lot in my free time .
that is cool , you must like kids .	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
how exciting ! i do not have time for a boyfriend , between my full time job and volunteering .	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
that is nice . how long have you been together ?	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
what do you do in your free time ?	i sure am . it has been five whole years , today !
my favorite color is navy	i am in the navy .
it is . in my free time , i rescue bunnies	what do you do for work ? i am an office in the navy .
i have been fired and had to get a new job in the insurance business .	i work in insurance , as a secretary
but you socialize at the gym ? i play softball , i love it .	what about you ? are you married or single ?
yes i do . my dad is in the army .	haha fair enough . do you get in fights when you play ? i have never lost on
my mom would be disappointed if we fought , she passed away when i was young .	my father was a carsalesman . i turned out to be a very happy person .
perhaps you would like to purchase some life insurance ?	i would rather watch television .
then can i interest you in 27 car insurance policies ?	risky business all the time !
that is okay , i understand bro .	yes , but it does not pay very well .
oh , sorry to hear . i am a medical doctor , if you need any help .	so you work as a doctor ?
oh dear . i am sort of looking for a new job now , though .	you should go out driving that may help
no . maybe as a park ranger . i love going to parks .	i love red too , but not as much as blue . what is your job ?
sorry to hear . you do have lots of health problems .	ooh . that is nice . gotta tell my daughter about that
good . you have kids ? i have a daughter . she is a music prodigy .	that is okay i do not think i am in great health .
so sorry to hear . what do you do for fun , then ?	i can relate , looking for work these days is difficult . what is your profession ?
that must be such a fulfilling job !	i work in a for a doctor filing papers .
hi , doing well and yourself ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
have you tried filling the tub ?	oh , are you a farmer ?
i have terrible allergies . makes tending in the field trouble	haha . it would be better if you put it on your horse
i prefer horses over people ! i love to ride , do you ?	i wish i had the time to travel but with the farm . . . hard time to find time .
i grew up on my fathers farm , always around them	yes i do i like rock . what kind do you like
what sort of music do you enjoy	i love the farm life !
do not really listen to rap . i prefer rock especially if working	hop along is my current favorite , tupac will always rule .
both of those are great groups	i like rap , pop , rock and almost everything in between
i am not a parent but i have a german shepherd . his name is barnaby	yes i have eight rabbits . but i really want 2 children .
well i will take your word for it . do you have a job ?	really ? ! ! i also have 2 cats and 3 dogs .
that sounds like a nice job . i work for the united states postal service	that sounds like a cool job . no , i do not have a job right now
tell her i say thanks ! are you a fan of any professional sports ?	i bet she does . are you a professional at it ?
you are a dedicated parent ! i like nascar because my dad was a racecar driver	i play professional soccer . my job is not enjoyable , trust me .
i am sure that they will . how old are they ?	i used to want to be a race car driver when i was a kid
okay well then i will be sure not to ask . where do you all live ?	they are all in their 20s and 30s
nice . i live in arizona which sucks because there are scorpions here	i think the chocolate chip cookie is the best thing to cook . who is your racer ?
i am 4 . i have trouble talking to people .	that is funny ! i have two cats and five dogs
i do not know little league . i want to be a dog .	i am sorry . that is no fun . you should get a dog !
i like to eat chocolate too . do you like chocolate ?	www i love dogs ! what kind of dog do you have ?
my mom will not let me , she said i am too little .	no , i drive around my black car , its a lease .
when i look at my blocks i like to sing about the letters .	who your favorite baseball player ?
i do not play yet , but my mom said when i get older maybe .	yes , i do . i have a dog . what about you ?
do they like to sing about letters too ?	lol ! ! do you have kids ? i have five
i like talking to people , but they sometimes do not understand me	i love chocolate ice cream . you .
hello ! how has your day been ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
i am a big fan of rollercoasters and sky diving	its going good and yours ?
i actually love hummus because i am a vegan	i bet that was a fun job !
i just moved to the states from germany	haha is that a regular thing for you ? i am vegan so , i would not know lol
i love watching cooking shows in my free time	o k were do you live i used to live in north america in minnesota
i hope you like football because i am watching it	i work as a chef
i think the browns are not very good	whos your favorite team
ha . i am a new york giants fan . they are not good	the football team ?
hi from canada , good . i do , like my army chaplain .	hi . i am good how about you ?
i do not . but yes there are tractors here . ethnic food too .	no , i admit i do not .
a favorite of mine is shawarma . what is that like ?	whats your major and your school ?
really ? how so ? what makes you think that ?	yea that is what my mom says as well
really ? i should ask the chaplain ?	false . there are two schools of thought .
i am not so sure about that . maybe the men are , but not her ?	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
sure . maybe you can pray for me too .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
thanks . us army guys can sure use that .	you should listen to more music . it is good for your soul .
that is amazing i work at bk part time	no pets . they make me angry
i do not drink because of my parents	that is still is very cool lol
they are strict and i am only almost twenty	why is that ? i can understand . i do not like my parents
that is cool , i am bad at math	i want to be older and move out of this place
i just wanna chill with friends	that would be a good thing to get into
i just want to travel the world , what kind of truck ?	you should go out driving that may help
i walk to work every day	i have a big truck and it is also hard to park .
i can not afford a car	no not at all . driving trucks are my thing . where are you from
hi graham , i am ashley , i am a 12 year old female tell me about you	are you in school i am in the 10th grade
that sounds like fun . want to be friends , i do not have a lot of friends	i like to hang out a lot
my parents are cool , they make me go to school but i do not like it	is that like my classmate joey who has two dads ?
that is a lot of books what else do you like ?	oh i read them to my first grade students . add love novels
i like pizza and dr pepper	i like to eat asian food
me neither . that would hurt . i like video games	you ever broke a bone ?
i used to love nintendo . tetris is my favorite	well i like to play video games .
same here . you be well	it was nice talking to you as well
sure , i am bob the builder	sure , tell me a little about yourself
i also really like star wars	haha that is funny . you any good ?
that is absolutely great just fantastic	do you like coffee ? i like to drink coffee .
only if you consider football a religion .	no , all i like is grey , yoga , and writing .
i have a problem with coffee	i am a coffee fanatic , yes !
not when you are poor and do not own anything .	do you drink coffee often ?
yeah that is cool , what is your favorite color ?	i think it could be beneficial for you .
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	those are great colors as well !
i am good , just got back from work	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i like the woods but not the desert , to many scorpions	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
what do you gamble on	do you own a car ?
ok , do you like sports ?	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
do you ski ? or snowshoe ?	nascar is the perfect sunday for me lol
what do you do for work	yes i am around sports all the time
nice , do you get free food ? i work at the post office	i am a manager at taco bell . it does not pay well though .
do you have any pets	i handle it with food . i think i am hungry always .
i am good . enjoying the day at home after working this morning . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am a bank teller now , not sure how much longer .	i work at the bank .
i like it , but daycare for one is expensive , and i am having twins soon .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
only dancing i do is down the hall to the bathroom in our new house .	exciting ! will it be your first child ?
it is , and throw another kid in the mix it is a party .	i am sure i will love the house too .
the occasional dinner out . i was vegan before the twins , i crave steak now .	no , not really . my kids keep me pretty busy so little time for hobbies .
not anymore . you can not be too fashionable this pregnant .	no , not really . my kids keep me pretty busy so little time for hobbies .
i am doing great ! what are you doing ?	hello ! i am wonderful and yourself ?
i am watching a movie on tv with my girlfriend .	just watching car videos about cars . i really like them .
she is studying to be a financial planner right now .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i work for the a traveling circus . what about you ?	i am a finance consultant for a bank
no i am not . it is a interesting job . is construction difficult ?	i am working with construction companies now
a lot of people make fun of me and call me a circus freak .	i definitely agree . food , housing , financial support .
yeah it does . i am one the main attractions .	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
i am something a lot better . i move things with my mind .	they said it was wild .
hi there ! i am doing great . i am originally from somalia . where are you from ?	i am good and yes i live in the us
wow i actually live there now too ! where from ?	i have not been out of the united states , but i would like to .
what type of school ? i went to a dancing school !	what do you like to do ? i have not been there
i am learning to be a dance instructor in nyc . you ever dance ?	where do you go to school ?
i wish i could do that ! i was forced to marry when i was in middle school .	not professionally , but i play . do you do any sports ?
they are all in somalia . i see them from time to time . do you ?	no , no siblings . you ?
is he also in middle school ?	no so much . however , i just moved to the united states last year so .
do you guys get along ?	no i went to different schools in several states . you ?
no i rather dog . i own two of them .	hello ! i am good and you ?
i am a teacher and i love children .	just volunteer work . mainly signing petitions and dog walking .
i would do that more often too if i had a larger income .	what you do not have any money ? they have programs for you .
do you like gardening ? i own a garden .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
i love the smell of the flowers in the air .	i like to garden and love the outdoors . do you garden ?
you life is so short . some time you forget about the little things .	i like to garden and love the outdoors . do you garden ?
no . but my husband was a long time ago !	yes , my whole life is work , work , work . how was the military ?
building boats , what kind you boats ?	i am retired and loving it .
depressed . turning 40 is a bummer !	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
i have not sold 1 car all week and the wife spent all the money i had !	fair enough . does your husband have a good job ?
i am getting a divorce and i would like a new job , too . hate it !	i am sorry . is it money issue ?
maybe i should try selling cosmetics ! i need money !	its a lot of hard work and i am hoping it will be worth it !
oh , cool . maybe we should get married !	haha well it definitely seems worth it ! what do you do for fun ?
somebody who does not spend my money !	i am married but i may also be looking for someone on the side haha
everybody should have their own money , especially when they turn 40 !	maybe i should invest in one then !
not one day in her life !	obviously my wife would care
hi sady ! i am kay and i love garth brooks .	hello , do you work or go to school ?
so sorry ! i was not allowed to listen to rock music when i was young .	like duh ! you said that . so you must be in the country ?
what museum ? did i mention that i love shania twain as well ?	sounds like hard work , but that builds character .
i have always wanted to see the metropolitan museum of art .	it still is one of mine !
you would not know it to look at me , but i actually grow my own tea .	what part of the country do you live in ?
no kidding ! sounds like we have a lot in common .	well , roses are very fragrant , so that can be imparted into food
yeah ? do you live in europe ? or is your tea imported ?	i grow orchids and hibiscus . wish i had a truck , too !
neither have i , unfortunately . it has been a dream to visit europe and canada , though .	i only have traveled in the usa no other country .
hi how are you doing ? i am fine thank you .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i am alone but have two dogs . and you .	fine fine how areyou . read any good books lately ?
good for you i wished i was in my thirties .	any other hobbies ? other interests ?
i do not work anymore i am disabled .	i work in a firm as a lawyer .
i like to get in a tub full of bubbles and relax .	my kids love taylor swift .
yes she is okay . that is so cool great i like 711 stores .	i try to drink water mainly .
so cool i cannot have a drink with alcohol .	i have been with her for 7 years .
slurpee sounds so tasty yes my friend drinks beer .	like drinking too much beer ? ha ha ha .
i am so fetch ! how are you ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
ha ha no . it is a mean girls reference . that is my favorite movie .	haha , its an acquired taste .
oh that sounds awesome ! i love them ! when was that ?	lol ! that made me laugh so hard .
oh wow . you must be a superfan . what else do you like to do ?	5 kids ? you should go out more often , for example , i like going to concerts
ugh study ! no thank you ! i would rather go out and party	i work in the banking industry . how about you ?
basically i do take time out to volunteer though . to keep my feet on the ground .	not really . i love to party .
a food bank near my house . do you ever volunteer ?	i love to volunteer and help people
repairs ? on your house ? or are you a handyman ?	no i have not . but props to you ! i just volunteer at the dog shelter when i can
i am doing well , just finished playing my piano	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i play a few instruments , but i teach piano , how old is she ?	great how are you melody ?
guitar , violin , flute . do you play any instruments ?	i play the guitar . do you play any instruments ?
basketball takes skills too . college or high school ?	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
you should finish college to have options , in my opinion	that would be my mother . she has done so much for me .
what are you in college for ? i like classical music , mozart	i play guitar but i study music industry .
engineering must be hard . you must be a smart kid	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
i would have liked to be an architect but went into music instead	i have always wanted to play an instrument . i do not have the patience .
i am 13 with an older brother .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i play on the soccer team . i really dislike match class . i ride the bus .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
you are quite old . i hope i live to be that old .	that is a lot in one classroom .
i really like to dance but am not good at it . i am only good at soccer .	do you eat your vegetables ?
thank you , that means a lot to me .	you should explore how to make some in a class .
i bet you have seen many many things .	i struggle to pay attention in math .
really ? ! no tv ! ! ? ? how did one survive ?	i would rather watch television .
that really sounds just wonderful .	i was in a car accident when i was younger .
just having a cup of coffee getting ready for work you	hi , what are you up to tonight ?
what is your favorite rap song and that good	hello , what are you up to ?
good song and what your favorite beverage ?	i like all music and love to sing and sometimes i like to rap too .
pizza is nice it hard to find a good cup of coffee around here	i go to music concerts and festivals all the time , except for rap
me and wife ride bikes i just do not like why she has to have pink bike	i do not drive any more . too much irish coffee in the morning
nice car anyways what you do for work	i want to get a bike . i would like a pink one .
sounds fun just enjoy working morning going home to relax	i listen to music do you
animals is nice have any more ?	i like to draw and feed my animals
what kind of dreams do you have ?	i am in school . what about you ?
cool ! i kayak for fun but you are cooler than me	i am still in school what about you
i learned how to from my parents	no , i am studying . do you like to kayak ?
hey that works . i make a bit of money dog walking	i have figured out how to make a living walking dogs . fun !
i absolutely love hard rock	i love music of all types
folk music is nice too . i listened to it a lot in college	i love music mostly pop rock
i am in texas . i went to school in illinois though	i studied at school in chicago . where abouts do you go ?
allow extra time for everyone around you to commute	no i wish i could play music instead
i try to spend weekends with friends . i love to host dinner parties	oh yes , its very busy
i also play music which involves alcohol . moderation is the key	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
congratulations . one day at a time . how long has it been ?	i volunteer at the local homeless shelter making meals
i do not trust medication . you can stay sober without it . concentrate on your art and people will love you	it helps me relieve stress . music is awesome
i grew up on a small farm . i miss it , do you ?	yes , i play rock but still take piano and violin . what do you cook ?
i understand . it seems like a give or take relationship . convenience vs . independence	yes , its very peaceful plus it gives you something to do
hey share the cream ! haha	oh , maybe you should eat ice crem
vanilla is my fav as well	no i am in high school . do you understand your feelings ?
haha that is cute haha , what you do for living	lol . i bet they love that
wow really , i am in highschool and i plan to become a physical therapist	i work as an athlete , i do not really like it .
wow seriously , that would be great	are you in school , high school or college ?
wow that crazy , its a pleasure talking to you	oh since your in the olympics and all , that makes sense
i love to run , my goal is to run a k	i love to learn about anything i can
that is amazing , i am winner for homecoming queen this year	are you in school , high school or college ?
hey ! just came back from playing some ping pong . you ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
do you have a job ? me and my father are working as an electrician !	i play the guitar ! do you have any pets ?
you should move down south , we got a lot of delicious chocolate here that i love eating !	do you play any instruments ?
do you like music ? i play piano and violin sometimes !	i have a friend in colorado springs . . i love that place
oh we should try to do some songs together !	you mean the garden you planted ?
i say hey yay yay , i say hey , what is going on ?	ca not really do much in this weather !
damn you got some bars homie , you should sign up a record deal or something	could be fun , whats your favorite song to play ?
we are no strangers to love , you know the rules and so do i	haha you would be on the road all the time
i am not vegan , and i have a german shepherd that i love to pieces .	yes , i am
i love hummus . he is brown mostly .	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
cool ! personally i love watching nhl hockey .	you watched the wrong video . all of our farms are have laws and standards .
you are so right about disney !	do you like playing or watching hockey ?
i do not sky dive , i am not brave . i live in rural farming community .	its really neat when you see a manta ray jumping out of the water ! like a bird .
i raise my own food , no pool , and i do have a television .	no i do not raise animals . do you have any ?
yes he is , but my dog only watches when i do .	yes , my hobby is playing hockey .
i suppose it is better than thinking he is a lion .	i run and play with my dog spot . he is a collie .
good . yourself ? listening to classical music	hi , am good . what about you ?
can you do a kick flip ?	i play the guitar . do you play any instruments ?
as did i once fell off my riding tractor that is red color favorite .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
as do i at youth christian faith .	ouch , that is a lot of pain .
do you like the color red ?	yes ! it is so annoying .
i like red fire hydrants i day dream of em .	those are great colors as well !
yes i do i like going to the zoo .	i do not but i have thought about it .
no i have not . i like red i have a red keyboard	yes yes , i have been there , friend !
the day was strange , i found out i am special	good evening its going well . how are you ?
how are you special ? i recently went through an operation	how old are you ? i am 10
replace my exterior heart so i can live	i love having a dog
lol i can move objects with my brain so its not bad	yeah , but i can not help myself
i am young i do not understand	i will sing you a song .
doctors told me not to have candy	yes i do an i love it lol
i also love chocolate because it so goof	i like chocolate chip cookies
i have known nothing but my room in the hospital	i live in california .
terrible . my dad keeps trying to send me on blind dates .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
he is killing me . i always work weekends .	it is very fun . i can tell you that .
dog agility ? what the crap ?	i have two dogs and their a job to be around .
that is the most ridiculous thing i have ever heard .	my dad tried . i fell off and was scared to try again .
you pay to do this ?	well its more like how they get away with things a lot .
maybe my dad could fix you up on a blind date .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
you are spending your weekends trying to make your dog more agile .	well maybe he just had an aptitude for it .
there just has to be more to life .	do you enjoy working with dogs ?
seattle . i love listening to live music here .	i am in city zone , where are you ?
nope . i just play video games and go to the gym .	no , i am a student .
not really . i just go to mall and look at leggings .	of course , i listen to it while cooking !
gross . i think the dirt would mess up my skinny jeans .	i play music , and video games .
well at least my short hair would keep me cool .	yeah . getting outdoors is important . even just sitting in the grass .
yeah especially since i am so skinny .	i complain when it is too cold and complain when it is too hot . you know ?
definitely not . would not be able to fit my leggings !	most definitely , you must be quite short then !
i would for sure hit the treadmill .	well , i do try to stay fit . do not want to get fat lazy like dad .
hi ! i am hanging out with my dog trooper . you ?	hi , what are you up to tonight ?
sounds awesome ! you must be busy .	i do not have any dogs . you ?
i work as a mechanical engineer . the hours can be long sometimes .	i work in an office . i love to hike and climb . any pets ?
i love hiking and rock climbing ! what about you ?	i just write stories , love my dog and do a lot of rock climbing .
you should visit colorado where i live . it is very pretty here .	i enjoy taking photos and hiking their my favorite
it is a great place to visit for photography !	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
no , but i would love to learn spanish .	i speak five languages , counting english .
haha ! do you have a pet ?	i speak two languages , french and english !
ah . my do is a black lab .	haha , well , we all have our different talents on this earth , no ?
good . just got back from horse riding and relaxing now .	hi ! i am doing well , i am new to college . how about you ?
do you have any horses ? are they in high school ?	where did you go to high school ?
you are so lucky ! i cannot have a horse until i graduate .	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
two whole years ! that is forever . i just stare at my purple walls .	aww that would be awesome to have .
i want a mini horse with a lime green saddle to match my carpet .	green and purple . it is a toss up .
is her hair brown and straight or curly ? she might get teased in high school .	ll ! ! ! not sure i want to try that one ! ! !
high school is the pits . teased for horses , being vegan , anything .	she is very kind and smart .
it sure can ! the teachers especially hate us all .	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
how about you , do you like yourself	that is not true ! you will find someone !
i have to go do homework now . my mini horse awaits !	my favorite color is purple ! hope you are loving it !
happy birthday ! most days i am happy just to go to the gym	16 is a fun age . is she driving yet ?
not really . i collect vintage cars .	yes . do you drive a car ?
yes ! i have an orange alfa romeo from johnny carson	you should make me one ! i could pay you for it
allergic ! by working from home i do get to take a lot of cool rides though	i think so . he is a very nice dog .
fish are friends ! i love talking to my fish ! !	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
cute name . working from home would give you more time with fish friends !	my favorite character on cars !
being carefree is totally where the good life is !	i wish i had time for that but i have to save money for a car .
i am doing well . just got home from work . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
wow ! very nice . i drive a bmw . what do you do ?	i drive a bmw x5 .
i work as an accountant with my finance degree acquired in 2011 .	researching different business plans and start loans . what do you go to school for ?
my parents bought me a yorkie yesterday ! being successful wealthy bankers and all .	no pets , my parents are over protective . do you have pets ?
no . i am into punk rock ! is being a mechanic your dream job ?	i love country music and r b music .
yeah . next year i want to go to business school to become a manager .	what is your dream car ?
what do you like to do for fun ?	what do you want to do after you graduate ?
i like to take my dog for walks and sometimes i volunteer .	i go to concerts a lot . especially orchestras .
good , how are you today ?	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
must be cold where you at ? i am in pennsylvania	hi , i am doing fine , how are you doing ?
hopefully this winter not bad . i pregnant first child	true story , man . and this is our rainy month . though they claim that would be april .
thanks , just started new job as a pa so hopefully good maternity leave	oh okay , congratulations on being remarried
personal assistant . what kind of work do you do ?	ha , perhaps , like a documentary !
wow very cool ! my husband likes to skateboard on weekends	i run a baber shop , look me up if you are ever in new york
hope your arm heals soon ! did you break it skateboarding	but i still rock on a skateboard ! serious
do you like reading ? i try to read a new book every week	yes this broken leg is agitating !
hi , just imagining world take over . you ?	yes i am getting ready right now !
have you thought about housekeeping ? it is what i do	i do not work . i stay home with the kids .
i was one a painter , loved that . good luck in restaurants !	well then you would be good at publishing . i paint pictures for fun .
teeth seem difficult to work with . do you have kids ?	i have a couple of kids so it is hard to travel . where do you work ?
i have 2 adult children , i never see them though .	i do not have kids . i have two older siblings so i do want children .
what concert ? i use to travel with a band when i was young	i am going to a concert tonight . i go to 10 a year .
nice , i was beautiful once , but now i am 56	ha ha . i to concerts a lot too . what music do you like ?
time is not always kind to us though	that is beautiful ! i would love to do so myself one day .
kind of tired . i hate monday .	hi , i am doing really well . you ?
no i am in between jobs .	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
i am not really sure . i broken my arm skateboarding .	i am in school still .
that is okay . the price of having fun . what do you do ?	ll i think its the other way around .
at the same time ? that is a lot .	in college . got a awful job myself .
what do you want to do ?	i guess . i do not go to school .
i see . maybe i could use that for my broken arm . i want to make hats .	yeah i work in health care .
i am wearing one now , made from paper .	it is great . you really should try it .
good . i am a cashier at the local supermarket , you ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
interesting . i live in ohio , never been anywhere else . what about you ?	what job is that ?
it is pretty boring , not much to do . do you have pets ?	i have never been there . how is it ?
my cats name is spook . what is your favorite food ?	no , i do not have any pets either .
pizza with black olives .	japanese food is my all time favorite . and you ?
do you have any hobbies ?	i love sushi and chinese food . you ?
i would love to know more about solar energy . i like to swim .	i enjoy crafting and painting .
i love to go to the beach as well . what is your favorite color ?	do you like swimming i go alot .
sure . i am 23 years old and i eat a whole lot of food .	hi ! i am well and you ? i do not cook .
i love it . i tried to cook it but i am bad at cooking .	yes ! pizza is the best !
i had pizza in italy . i travel a lot .	that is yummy too . we grill a lot of our .
where do you live then ?	have you traveled anywhere lately ?
oh . i still need to eat ohio food . i want to eat all kinds of food .	i have never really had the need to travel there . heard many stories tho .
i get plenty of exercise so it is not a problem for me .	yes . i have something for that but you would have to see a doctor .
yeah , are you obsessed with anything ?	yeah , it will keep me motivate to stay away from unhealthy diet
oh , i have never heard of them .	yes ! they are my favorite .
hey there , sure i guess , do you have a favorite color ?	hi how are you today ? i am well thanks for asking .
purple and lime green , actually just finished painting my room those	blue daises , they are the coolest !
i am still in highschool , two years left , no idea what i am going to do	oh i am also in grad school . rather just finished .
they tell you to have it figured out by junior year though ,	that sounds interesting . i just want to graduate high school .
that is awfully expensive though is it not ?	i would like to visit once i graduate .
i would love to do that , but i only travel for my horse competitions	i am in school now , but i want to travel after i graduate
all over depending what we qualify for , i mean not out of the us anyways	i am in school now , but i want to travel after i graduate
it would be expensive , and my horse would just not have it	lol i would love to travel one day never been out of the us
absolutely ! how old are you ? i am in my 30s .	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
oh wow , that is quite a difference . do you know what a lite brite is ?	how old are you ? if you do not mind me asking
it was my favorite toy as a child . what kind of music do you like ?	oh ! i am not familiar with that reference .
do you like new kids on the block ? i love them , and old school hip hop .	up tempo pop usually . at home dance to my music .
that is funny ! i take dance lessons so i can dance just like them .	my mom says that ppl that graduated high school in 80s complain too much .
that is so exciting ! what do you want to study in college ?	how old are you ! i graduated high school not too long ago .
oh wow , i could never be a vegan . i love cheese way too much !	my mom says that ppl that graduated high school in 80s complain too much .
i can only imagine . what are your favorite foods ?	my mom says that ppl that graduated high school in 80s complain too much .
no i live in ohio how about you	hello , do you work or go to school ?
no i am not her	what about your mom , wheres she been ?
are you in jail	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
did you stole a toy	do not you understand ? i do not care where you work . i will pay you .
i am just guy who works at supermarket	haha , no , probably not her then .
i am not sure i can	no but i do get a good deal .
i do have money i will try to buy it	of course ! it is the best money can buy .
sure what is your favorite food	i will have to save my money so we can go .
i am just out walking my dog	good afternoon ! how are you
horses are great too but i hate scorpions	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
i am sure you did what colors do you like	i do not blame you . it is dreary .
i am boring and like grey	i love pink and baby blue
i work at the post office	i am employed . do you do anything ?
are you getting ready to move	well hopefully you can find a job there then .
that is great ave you always wanted to be a lawyer	i can get you out at my new job
that is great you must be excited	what about your profession and dream
hello , and congratulations . my dog says hello too .	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
no , she is sitting here staring at my screen , watching me type .	yes . i live on a farm , actually . you ?
i do not know who that is .	no , tell me about it .
no , i am in my late twenties .	we travel a lot and love rural places .
no , i have not . that is a weird thing ;	false . there are two schools of thought .
i do , but i have a feeling we have different tastes in movies .	yes i watch movies
star wars , captain america , fast and the furious .	rom com movies , what about you ?
rogue one is my favorite .	i like the story so far .
nothing much listening to some music you ?	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
neat what kind of dog ?	i love to play with my dogs !
that must be some dog . are you a trainer ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
my dog goes where i go , we live in memphis .	i do not work , i play in a band .
i spend a lot of time singing in this great usa .	what part of the country do you live in ?
yea not much my style either some jeans and a hat is all i need most days	i sing and dance . you ?
well i am a country boy and that is all i will ever be .	i like your style janet .
one of my favorite lines yes !	yea i am sure its not .
i would be happy too . how are you doing today ?	sure , i enjoyed talking with you .
i have the ability to charm others with my music . how about you ?	i play guitar and lead vocals .
that is exciting . i play country music	i sing 80s and earlier country and 80s rock .
yes i am sure you can hear me play my guitar	yes , i will have to listen to it one day
it may lonely but i am sure it is beautiful . do you make friends with the birds ?	i could play you a song
how do the birds respond to you freezing them	believe me , they like it .
yes sometimes . i would like for you to hear it . what is your favorite song ?	no , i do not . i do not like music very much .
i am not familiar with it but i will look it up sometime	some would call it country pop
i am so glad i am not in school anymore and work full time instead .	maybe you can go to the navy like me after graduation ?
i work with a local volunteer opportunity that rescues bunnies .	maybe you can go to the navy like me after graduation ?
they are very cute . i was in the military so it is great therapy .	haha ! what kind of dog do you have ? i love dogs .
there are so many i cannot count .	they are and very loyal .
yes they eventually get adopted .	i have two , they are adopted . do you have any in another world ?
they run very fast and are hard to catch . do you like animals ?	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
i wish i had a dog .	i have a dog and cat . i adopted my dog when he was still a puppy
i am a big fan of german shepherds .	my puppy is a golden retriever
hello . i only speak english . how is your day ?	yes . i should be fluent by monday when i land .
good . just got home from work at burger king .	hey there ! pretty good so far . you ?
oh ! how cool . what language ?	that is a good job , but i could not work in that area , i have bad habits .
si ! muy bien . i am so proud of you !	i only speak english and no foreign language .
just a small amount . i took 4 years in high school . then forgot most of it .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
yes ! and chemistry as well .	i only speak english and no foreign language .
i like anything but country music . you ?	classical , rock , classical rock . ll . music is great for the mind .
same ! i just listen to whatever my friends have on in their cars .	sort of a light jazz .
wow that is cool mr . i am only 4	hi there . do you have any hobbies ?
yeah flowers are okay . my mom got me turtle	yes ! they are my favorite .
no i make messed with my toys and do not pick them up .	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
is that so ? have you ever stepped on a lego ?	then you are stuck having conversations .
yeah my parents do not like it . so i try to play with dolls	oh no . how long did it take you to find it ?
mine were before , but i never clean them	my best friends son has a turtle . he is pretty large now .
oh you are going to go shower ?	really ? even as a pet ?
oh yes , i think that is right	yeah i have a pet turtle and a hamster
i am great george , just set around braiding my dogs hair	hey there , i am well , you ?
i lied i do not have a dog , but do have a bird	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
wow , you have seen the bees knees , i am i mean i was a doctor	where do you work ? is it an interesting job ?
ten years , but now i am searching for a job because i got fired	i am not sure really its been so long
making a video for americas funniest videos , while doing heart surgery	no , tell me about it .
i do , and now i just watch my all time favorite movie friday , hey	i do not but i have thought about it .
i love going to the park . do you ? i like to trip roller skater with logs	are you close with your family ?
well , tell my old boss that , i like farms , i like to play with piglets	that is kind of you to say but are you funny also ?
howdy ! ! ! i just got done working the farm so i need to relax !	hello ! what do you do for a living ?
wow ! i live in the country so i have a farmers tan !	it is a lot of work ! i am sure you are glad its over
tell me about it ! my pet cow will be sad when it gets colder . betsy loves warmth .	awww when ? i will 1 day lol
my electrician salary could not afford all that !	i know people who own those farms so i know its good and clean .
i blast good ole country music in my big dodge ram !	i am big into americana , alt country . . bands like drive by truckers , wilco , tom petty
my parents would yell if they heard britney spears ! their farm is country only !	take her on a truck ride ! !
what is your favorite sports car ? only big trucks for me .	indeed . cars are very expensive !
tells you they are not hillbillies huh !	i have a pet cow . it is unusual i know .
i am good and you ?	i am good thanks and you ?
my favorite color is blue . do you have a favorite character ?	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
my favorite character is mickey mouse .	red , ha ha . but seriously , do you know the sesame street song ?
every year i would love to go to disney world with my family .	i love to watch disney movies , sounds silly , but they are my favorite .
i love frozen so i love to sing the songs from the movie .	do you want to sing in the church choir ?
yes well i love disney musicals .	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
tangled was good but frozen was great .	i prefer the disney version , more fun without the depressing ending .
what grade are you in ?	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
you hiring ? i am forty , a car salesman and unhappily married .	i do not do anything . what about you ?
wow ! my divorce is final tomorrow . wife is a big spender but does not work .	how long have you been married ?
great ! you need a car ? i wish i had a business . you happy ?	i do not think that is true . money is needed to pay bills .
that is good ! what kind of business are you in ? you hiring ?	i want to buy a new car but my husband is being a stiff .
wow ! is forty old ? my wife takes my money . help !	i am in sales . you and my wife would get along she is real bubbly
the divorce ! what positions do you have open ?	you sound like my ex wife . we just got divorced .
get out ! i hate selling cars . you need a salesperson ?	i am the president of a little marketing consulting agency .
i am good just resting had a long day volunteered at a soup kitchen	i am good , it is almost lunch time here .
omg noo lol are you ok	what did you do before you retired ?
whats your favorite food ? mine is cheeseburgers	hi i am brief i am doing good how are you
i was same way when i gew up since we were poor my 1st job was mcdonalds	just about everything . i eat a lot
omg that is crazy my lil sister says she is running out of songs since she uses ppl	yea its cool we cresol young
alright watching tv and you ?	goody and she hangs out the whole hour i get ready
i am ariel by the way were are you from ?	i watched too much and ate too much cheeseburger and missed my morning alarm
that is me lol but i guess we keep getting each other so what sports do you like ?	yeah , its a weird name .
i agree , nice to meet you jane	i walk dogs and one of them got hit .
i am jess , i have 3 dogs . i love dogs ! do you have any pets ?	i am sorry , sounds like you have alot of issues .
that is great ! i love burger king ! i have a dog walking business	yes i do i have 3 dogs .
i enjoy watching gymnastics , what do you like to do ?	we did everything together starting out the family business .
it is always good to have a well rounded social life !	i also hang out with friends .
it is important to make time !	true enough . what are your other interests ?
where do you go to school ? what is your major ?	free time is definitely limited while being in school .
that is great ! do you have a major ?	i currently learn in college
oh i am doing ok , you ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
that must have been crazy . do you have pets ?	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
that is great , i have a cow	i have two dogs ! they enjoy running around my farm
you are an olympian ? yeah my parents farm	how many cows do you have ?
that is wild , in what ? horses too	yea , i live on a farm , so i have a few farm animals
that is fine , what are you eating ?	i ride horses and and breed cattle
sounds great , i love noodles	cooked cabbage . what is yours ?
any kind of ramen i love	it is my absolute favorite food .
rap is my favorite music i also produce them	hello , i am fine and you ?
i have a pet and it is called charlie	i like the rap music do you ?
good for you , i have a 2015 civic from honda	i have a dog his name is rex
it is a dog , what is your favorite food , i love pizza	i could if i had a car
where do you want to go , how much will you paid me to drive you ?	i like to listen to music
pizza is good , what type of pizza do you like ?	you can always pay for it
i love pineapple pizza and soda	i like to listen to rap while cooking dinner .
coke is it and you ? do you like 7 up ?	i like orange juice and pizza , what about you ?
wow that is funny what do you do for a living	good afternoon how are you
that is so cute i am in college	i am a gamer and work for a video game company
computer science its challenging but interesting	i am going to be a teacher .
sure what should i know	our dad does of course , you should study computer science when you are older !
that sounds like a good car	ca not wait to try out a self driving car . hope i will be able to afford one !
wow five boys sounds like a handful	i had a family until the accident
my parents came here from india	i love music as well !
they did but they are pushing me to be the best i can	yes i did that on purpose . they love it too .
hi there . i am well , thanks . yourself ?	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
i finally finished unpacking tonight . you have a spanish test ?	i am good . finally get to meet my kids this weekend
that is interesting . what does that word mean ?	i only speak english and no foreign language .
i just moved to the usa from romania .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i take care of my stepchildren and am currently 6 months pregnant with triplets . . . so no work .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i only speak english . my parents and grandparents moved to romania from yorkshire when i was three .	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
most of the townspeople actually spoke decent english where i grew up in romania .	i speak two languages , french and english !
i lived in paris as an exchange student in high school . i hated the language barrier .	i am fluent in english , french , and arabic
hi . i try all kinds of coffee as a hobby and i read poetry .	i am currently a college student what about you ?
i really love star wars and am a huge fan . do you like it ?	my favorite hobby is cooking . how about you ?
me too ! i also like to make paella . i played for a division of football in college .	ha ha ! ! well it helps when you enjoy football .
i have heard that about people who are descendants of christopher columbus .	well , if my mug of coffee is full it is all good .
i do not remember . maybe linebacker ? i have forgotten how to play .	football most of the time . .
i know ! we surely do .	what position did you play ? surely not so long ago
you must also love poetry and coffee	i like watching football u ?
i like to cook , run , read poetry , drink coffee , play football . and starwars	can you make a good cup of coffee ?
i am a chef . my name is larry what is yours ?	i am a writer , what about you ?
not at the moment . do you have any hobbies ?	i am just kidding i do not have a job ?
i love to be on the water , fishing is one of my favorite things to do .	not professionally , but i play . do you do any sports ?
nice , i like comic books as well . what position do you play in basketball .	i have a sister . what about you ?
your mom was probably looking out for you . do you have any pets ?	i would like to read that .
no i always wanted a dog . what state do you live in ?	no , i do not have any pets either .
never heard of him . what type of music does he sing ?	i live in california , how about you ?
i like to snowboard in the winter .	i love singing his songs
i feel tired this morning , worked too late last night .	good morning , its going pretty well how is your day ?
i work at burger king part time , and go to school part time .	i work at a restaurant . you ?
me too , but i am not the boss . are you working ?	i would love that . do you have soda ?
no i have to get going again to work . i want to save money and move out .	yes , i have to go to work somehow . is your boyfriend demanding ?
i have no idea , just out from my parents home	i live with my mom but want to move out . maybe i will get one then .
that would be nice . are you renting it out ?	can you get me a good deal on a house ?
i am very easygoing , no drinking or drug .	yep ! i am just glad it pays the bills ! nice to own our own home !
ah good . that is fun . i will come take a look .	weed smoking it guy ? no cliches there , lol .
sure ! i just got back five guys	i do not think that you would , paul .
what sport do you enjoy ?	what is your favorite sport ?
well , i am a teacher ! little kids !	i like to play sports and bake
what are some of projects ? i am going to get married	are you still in school ? i am a teacher of little kids .
my favorite color is green !	education , my goal is to be a kindergarten teacher .
i just went to the movies , but there was nothing good !	i baked a wedding cake for this weekend .
i hope so , because it was boring	i worked out an getting ready for the weekend .
i will as well ! thanks !	yes i must agree ! who is your fav ?
mondays used to suck , but i am retired so they do not bother me	i love making new clothes out of old and seeing my kids in class light up
i remember that feeling , its a good one , do you love it ?	do you have any family , kids ?
oh where were you from before	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
oh i want to visit there very badly , but my cancer just went into remission	us born and raised . what do you do for a living ?
breast cancer , really took a toll on me	my mother survived cancer and lived
hopefully it will stay in remission , what do you do for a living ?	my grandmother just died from lung cancer , sucks
so you do not work whatsoever ?	i am a retired nurse
then that would be considered working ? do you enjoy it ?	yes , i try to stay busy . i make kids clothing
hey there rick , i am andy . are you in aaa like me ?	hello , good to talk to you . i am sorry to hear that
i travel in the city . my meds make me see things some times .	i am good . no , i enjoy traveling with the fam .
45 . stay away from alcohol , and if you can , buy a farm .	i am . 20 years of age .
retiring as a teen ? that is pretty impressive . what do you do ?	it is a person who drinks no alcohol . i am content very .
oh , okay . i thought you said 16 . sorry , i see things at times .	i am in college and work part time .
i take a lot . some days eight , some days twelve .	i am pediatrician and i see a lot more children with asthma now .
thank you . how did you end up a librarian ?	does anything give you relief ? i hate taking medicine for mine .
thank you , lunch time is over for me as well .	i am in college and work in the library .
i am pretty good . just a little lonely .	hey , i am doing well , you ?
i am dave . what is your favorite show ?	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
i like every show i have ever seen	hi ! yes it is . my favorite show was on tv today .
i think i will be alone forever . you ?	i am single . no kids , u ?
we are so similar . do you like cars like me ?	no kids yet . but yes , i would love to have some someday .
you live alone with your husband ?	no . i like to work on cars .
i would not know what that is like since i never had a relationship .	i am just a stay at home wife . my husband makes the money .
i am sick , thank goodness my husband is a doctor . stupid flu .	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
no , i do play tennis professionally though . any sports for you ?	yes , do you play ?
that sounds super fun ! i bet my kids would love it . i have so many .	no comment about gambling . but every bit helps my humble business , consulting .
my family is growing yet again , twins . i cannot travel or i would totally .	i would absolutely love that . my family would too
thanks , they are expensive . we just had to move to a 3 storey home .	no kidding ! i travel all the time , for work and pleasure . maybe i will visit !
mine is growing all the time . i feel like john and kate plus 8 sometimes .	i hope to settle one day ! family is everything .
apparently i am very fertile . just look at me the wrong way and i am pregnant lol .	how big is your family ? it is just my husband and me .
i cannot even keep them straight half the time .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
i love ice cream what is your favorite ? mine is chocolate	i am from chiton , where are you from ?
i love wife and my kids they love chocolate ice cream also	i like pizza and ice cream .
three children is in my family , i work as a plumber	do you have any kids ?
you want my kids ? plenty to spare , we go to park together	what is your favorite drink ?
oh , kids is not good for you then , i take that back . how is it going ?	maybe one day you will change your mind about kids .
okay , sorry to know . are you lonely ?	i wanted to see how it would affect my health , if it would improve at all
think positive , how is your social life ?	i would love company . been lonely since i lost my husband .
you will soon , it is good to have a family .	sorry , we always cannot get what we want in life
i am great . just making a salad . yummy	hey , i am doing pretty well , you ?
oh no . i eat very clean . maybe some strawberries	i eat pretty much all day . probably not a good thing .
i really miss it but i have been eating healthy ever since i overcame cancer	funny you should say that i forgot to get some while i was out earlier . seriously .
yes i just got a new job yesterday	yes . i am going to work .
i am a life coach	yes anything works as a job if your getting paid
yes i do . my parents are very athletic like i am	no kids . . . just school
that is great . kids are lovely	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
i love driving my pathfinder , it is a nissan .	music , computers . . . u ?
that is a great job ! high paying . my hair is short and is brown	oh , i can get down with anything but country music . you ?
i like taylor swift not death metal . . .	i dabble with computers on the weekends . . . . guess that is my hobby . ll
i love county music , and exercise	i also enjoy listening to country music .
we all have different values .	i am from california , and you ?
i live in the country in usa .	hm . . interesting . . i drove the whole country
how boring is your life ? do you like country music ?	have you ever traveled outside the us ?
is it hot there now ? almost winter .	yes . i do not like country though .
i am good . i am eating chocolate . it is my favorite .	i am fine , how about you ?
i am only 4 . i will be 5 when i have a birthday .	my pets are four cats and two dogs . love them like family .
no . but i have blocks and like to play with them and sing .	yes , i have one dog , you ?
how many do you have ?	that is cute . birds are so cool . how old is your bird ?
do your cats ever eat the birds ?	they are great and friendly cats .
i am sorry you are sad . do you want to play with my blocks ?	yes they are . i love cat shaped candy .
i like chipmunks too . i would want to play with them .	no . the dogs would eat my cats , would they ? not a good idea perhaps .
i am busted , a broken arm while skateboarding .	hi ! great thanks , and yours ?
all my friends and i were skateboarding and i landed wrong .	yea , and i was not feeling it today .
i understand , i fell , bones were broken , but my hat stayed on ! huh	yes , but playing hockey is best of all .
plenty hats , and a dog . we are both here watching rob dryden skateboard .	no , i do not have any pets either .
i have a german shepherd also . the best dog ever .	he is a large mixed dog , brindle , his name is sox !
no not my thing . i love card games .	no , i do not . i keep to myself mostly .
i heard that from a few friends maybe i will try it someday .	what is your favorite board game ?
that is very interesting . so i guess you live in a place with scorpions ?	i would have to say dogs
when i retire in few years i will travel all over the country to nascar races .	we have a bunch of dogs i sure care a lot about them . do you like dogs ?
i have seen scorpions during my travels to spain .	haha i say yes . if you really race , you will win .
i did not know they had nascar in spain .	whats your favorite place youve travelled to ?
i have read about this in the library where i work .	ha hell yeah ! what else did they like to do ?
i have two dogs , tater and tot .	no but i read a lot . are you a reader ?
at my age i should not be drinking anymore . how old are you ?	no i drink just water .
do you type with one finger ?	i do . i would like to go traveling though .
oh i feel as if i could live forever ! i am quite strong for an old broad !	i am doing just fine , do you like watching movies ?
i could just dance and sip wine by the light of the moon !	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
that will not put too many years on your life ! not as many as me !	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
come on . guess how old i am ! before tvs !	ah i would agree ! what do you do for a living ?
not even close ! i am 100 baby ! hash tag forever young	yes since i was a kid
life is good baby doll !	if i was younger i would have to agree .
that is nothing ! i had 10 and my husband made a dollar a week .	kids make is all worth it , right ?
priorities are everything ! we made it work .	money is not everything . do you have children ?
ok . just enjoying my television watching time . wishing i had someone to watch with .	hey , i am doing well , you ?
i wish i had a husband instead of being alone when i do my work at home .	yes that is a good way to stay busy .
i guess it is because i do not have time with the gym , work , tv , and cars .	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
i love pizza , but i really enjoy putting my cash into the cars i have .	mine is cheeseburgers . with extra pickles . yum !
i am not really building . just love to spend money on buying them .	i drive my dream car every day i am home . a 65 mustang .
maybe i should spend more money on trying to take a date out to a nice restaurant .	my boyfriend does not work so he watches tv alot .
yes . you think i would meet someone at the gym .	yeah , maybe that is why i cannot be in a loving relationship .
yes . just ask if they like cars .	you can run on a treadmill ?
hi there ! i am not into them , but my kids love them .	yes . buns in the oven . you met my 3 children ?
that is great ! i have three kids so we are always in need of them .	what is a carb load ? i like eating pistachio ice cream .
perfect . i do not , but my wife and kids would love a dog .	yes , two cats and 4 dogs , , do you
oh no ! cats are such funny animals , very independent .	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
what do you do for a living ?	ha ha ! yes chocolate is a necessity in life !
wow ! that is impressive . we love to eat ice cream while watching the olympics .	part time doing odds and ends . are you married ?
i prefer chocolate myself , but my wonderful wife loves vanilla .	i prefer vanilla myself .
it is the best . my wife and kids are awesome .	yes ! you are beautiful and wonderful and the best person for your kids ! believe it !
uh okay ? way to reword a prompt ? what do you do for a living	i am well . busy day at school . how are you ?
ever work with bath bombs ?	its a job . what do you study ? any hobbies ?
that is pretty cool , i love those	no , tell me about it .
no one loves abstaining from alcohol , do you have any animals ?	haha . that is funny . wish you were in my classes .
i have four cats and a puppy , they are great to have	no , i do not have any pets either .
well , i have a pure bengal , two mutts and a white one , there are technical breeds	yes , i have two cats and 4 dogs
orange calico cats are very pretty	do you have pets ? i have several different breeds
well why should they be exempt unless they are working miracles	yes , but school will not pay for the things that i need .
good morning . my name is claire . how are you today ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
that is not old ! what do you do for a living ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am sorry to hear that . i am partially deaf . it makes it hard to do somethings .	i am a stenographer . what about you ?
did you have many animals ?	ahh well its something my work is very quiet i work with medicine in a plant
i live in the suburbs and grow beautiful roses .	i almost did die lol , i am allergic to flowers and there were tons at the park
do you like to read ?	that is nice . roses are lovely .
i have an extensive collection of books at home .	i like to read a lot , mostly the dictionary
i love murder mysteries and historic fiction .	i like most fiction books . i love young adult series .
hi what is your name	hi , i am great thanks , yourself ?
i am nikolai tesla	good afternoon how are you
i am a stunt double	i work for a hospital as a nurse . you ?
i like to read . what about you ?	i cannot disagree with that !
i was raised by a single parent . did you have both of yours ?	i like dystopian novels as well as mysteries . what do you do for a living ?
i am sorry to hear that	they were getting a divorce , she cheated on him .
no i am not a fan of social media	yes , i love it . do you ?
i read up to twenty books in a year	yes , i think that i do .
hi , i am from mass , how is the weather there ?	i am from california , and yourself ?
i could never climb , get go higher then the 3rd step of a ladder !	i make hot dogs for a living .
i walk dogs and own the business , do you like dogs ?	i have figured out how to make a living walking dogs . fun !
you don ; t have any pets ? dogs would love to hike with you !	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
bummer . i have never been to colorado , do you ski too ?	i do not have any pets either !
oh , snowboards are fun ! ski but don ; t really snowboard .	yes i hike , what is skittles ? like the candy ?
yes , people love it ! i like to surf and guess it would be like that .	yes , definitely , i will sure try !
not up close but they have been all over this year !	i have not but i should try it !
i am a life coach and i am good at it	i work in education .
i will run right over and help	that is an excellent profession . for how long ?
i run marathons and that is serious business	i would love to assist you .
i eat clean and work out cleaner	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
i survived the cancer scare so i have to	i get sucked into tv though , botched marathons are the best
germs track me at a grand scale	well it will be good for your death
wow that is great for you	i am trying to make money running marathons .
i am new in this country , but i love to work at my school	really ? ! ! i also have 2 cats and 3 dogs .
what is your breed ? how long ?	do you have children ? i have 2 .
that is sweet , triplets i will have in a few months	ah , you have a child . only one ?
so cute i love puts , do you have kids ? my step children are great	yeah . i am sure that all those kids are a handful .
thank you so much ! i am so happy .	no kids yet , still too young . do you work ?
i know what you mean , that is what life is all about	y es times are very hard i think about moving to another country .
you will , i hope you read your bible	y es times are very hard i think about moving to another country .
why is that ? it is the best book in the world	i would like to read that .
i am great , do you have any pets ?	hi there pretty good and yourself ?
no , i am more of a vegan	no , no pets . do you have any ?
i ate them so i punished myself by going vegan	no , no pets . do you have any ?
fast ones , but i would rather sky dive	yes i do an i love it lol
music is fun but i would rather swim	do you listen to music ?
do you think roller coasters are too	do you like to swim at all ?
gotta keep on moving right .	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
i am allergic to them but i do it anyway	what kind of ride would you like most ?
how are you . where are you from ?	doing fine , doing fine . what time is it there ?
oh great . i am living in ohio and working for a local supermarket	i am from cali , have you ever been ?
good to know . what is your favorite food ? mine is pizza with black olives	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
do you have any pet at your home . because i love cats and i have one spook .	i also run a ton every day
that too cool . which is your favorite band ? mine is who	if you say so . i could not do that .
you are great ! i love that band too at sometimes .	they are an english rock band that play really cool music .
then what is your next plan on your future after schooling	i love that band ! ! they are awesome
yeah mechanical engineering have great scope . you can get better jobs as well	probably maybe one day ! i can hope , anyway . why are you not happy with school ?
hey , my dogs are pretty silly both of then	hello . how are you ? i love cooking !
they took the cookies i baked , but i am gonna be sad when they die , scary	sad indeed . you must get a dog ,
death is scary really but bake sale is my world	i like to cook and bake as well
wow that is pretty cool what else you do for fun	i also bake , maybe some salmon or yellowtail .
just collecting baking stuffs	i also draw the comic , do you know how ?
oh that is what i do sometimes	i also bake , maybe some salmon or yellowtail .
nothing really except baking and stuffs	i like to bake how about you ?
oh i wanna get there and experience	i love the sunshine and the breeze of fresh air .
hi , how old are you ? i am 6o	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i am fine at my age , i am thinking about retirement	i am on job and i cant retire cause i am only 20 . hows retirement ?
i live in ny i work as a librarian	i would love to be able to retire there sometime .
i want to be happier , so i can visit spain again	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
you like the country side and not the city ?	you should visit one day .
i love spain so much , i been there 6 times .	i would love to be able to retire there sometime .
air is much fresher in the country	i think there are medications for that now .
it feels much safer that way , i know	well its one thing in your college years . but i am retired and its less risky .
that is great , i am a grad student	hi , its going well and you ?
kayaking and reading psychology books	i enjoy movies , reading books , and even just doing nothing
i love it , i am an awesome swimmer	it cannot be fun to kayak if you do it alone .
not really a fan , i am a meats kind of guy	i am also not vegan this time
i love barbeque ribs and macaroni	it is my absolute favorite food .
sounds interesting . so what do you do for a living ?	what kind of cheese is it ?
i walk dogs part time to pay off school	i am a college student
i do t o o	wee i majored in psychology and it is a waste of time .
hi . i am justin . i just got done relaxing in the tub .	hi ! i am good . you ?
i listen to a bit of everything . it helps me focus for my chess tournaments	i do love music but do not listen to much . i am about 6 ft .
right now i listen to a lot of mumford and sons .	probably gastelum . . . but no real favorite . . . i just love the experience .
i am a little self conscious . thirty is not as easy as i remember twenty being .	i drink water most of the time .
i tend to stay in and cook for myself since i quit drinking a few years ago .	i try to eat healthy .
my dad had me hooked on high protein foods like fish and chicken when i was training .	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
i am competing for a national chess tournament . it helps me keep focus	i drink a protein shake before going and working out .
yes , what are you doing for the weekend ?	oh , does it help keep you in shape ?
hi ! i am well just got back from church .	hi , i am doing well , how about you
oh that is awesome ! i love dogs . do you volunteer alot ?	all work and no play ! any animals or children ?
that sounds like am interesting job . i work as a teacher .	yes , part time only .
its good to relax ! i love walking and gardening	i bet that is a rewarding job !
haha it is a dirty job .	i like to garden and love the outdoors . do you garden ?
that is really a great thing to do !	which charities do you generally donate too ? i can help .
how many rabbits are there ?	right ! and all the amazing animals outside .
for being the age 100 i am doing pretty good for myself	i am doing well . where are you from ?
there was a better time when there was no tv	the only thing in the world ?
yes i do . i swim 1000 meters a day to look this good for my age	my grandfather who fought against the nazis would be very disappointed i cant swim
when i was a kid . i would go to the cyclone at coney island	what kinda thrills do you like to do
i like to watch diners , drive ins and dives	yes . i use to watch it but not that much anymore .
every day i also power walk with my dog brownie	i like exercise , you should try it
no walker . i feel like a 20 year old	dogs are good animals and so friendly .
that is not good my friend . i bet you do not think you can live forever	i would rather watch television .
not at all , i wish . all three dogs are though .	my cats and dog are my kids . but no i am not married
nice , i ave a dog on a raw diet in my dog walking business .	your husband is a pet ? that is so funny . lol
for dog walking ? no , but my dad sold door to door .	yes i am . i studied global affairs in school .
interesting , one of my wives is a groomer .	i am just an ordinary dog lover . i have got two , but my mother is allergic .
very cool . i have a friend who did that at the olympics in rio .	oh really ? did he work on them ?
nice , i go to most of the olympics every 4 years	is it his birthday today ?
cuba is a dirty country rattled by hurricane	i have traveled all over the world .
i guess that is true if you take a look as a whole	ha ha . it appears so . definitely a small world for sure .
no i am not who is jay	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
i like meat too do you like to cook	do you work ? i make money that i have not told anyone about .
are not you pregnant with twins	i . . am not sure if you can do that ? do you have any kids ?
i am a fisherman do you like your job	no , not really . do you ?
i do agree do you save the money you make	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
mostly tuna i love to cook with it	the fish i catch obviously
not really do you like to dance	not really . i like to write poetry and sing though .
how are you on this very cold night ?	i do yoga . i like all music . do you like any sports ?
i like organic food also i meditate everyday .	good , its a bit rainy though . tell me about yourself .
i stop working to follow buddhist spirituality all the time .	what do you do ? i teach yoga classes
i just moved to alaska six months ago .	yes i guess . time does not exist . meditation helps with that .
i am fasting from speech i have not talked for 3 months .	is it very warm where you are ?
it is extremely cold here but peaceful .	i do not do much . just talk
i have chosen to remain silent for growth purposes .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
good night and have great night .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
wonderful ! how has yours been ?	my day is fine , been peaceful .
i am not a fan of football	hi , its going well and you ?
i do not mind it . i just think it is too male centric	haha you cannot be that bad ! ! any hobbies ?
it does not say . but i am a believer in equality of the sexes	why do you think that is ?
well , you are allowed to think that if you wish .	and so you believe that its okay to be rude and dominate a conversation .
men are not more dominant . i am simply acknowledging your right to have an incorrect opinion .	i agree with you on that !
if you choose to think that , then you have that right .	i understand that completely . people usually have their own interests in mind .
this is the worst conversation to be in . i cannot stand to talk to incompetent people .	yes i could not agree more with that .
i am wonderful how are you	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i am glad to hear that . i am dying my hair	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i like red but it may come out purple	i love the color red .
no but i have an addiction to looking at things on the internet	no , but blue and red are my favorite colors . i need a life
roleplaying and it is very difficult	i try to channel it all into my work
i love to dream and work	yea i do . as much as role playing
i am an engineer at home	i work in education .
chemical i love animals but i just could not do that	i am a freelance artist .
my cats and i both love a nice glass of wine !	and what is that ? cats ?
oh yea , but not at this hour . i have a hard time sleeping .	yes . i like to eat .
i would rather spend time with animals than people .	i am not much of a baseball fan
that is a lot . i have a bunch of cats and we like bird watching	no kids either . 1 dog macie and 1 cat mr pippy toes .
no , we look out of the windows . i think the birds are attracted to my bright hair .	yes , i have 4 cats and they are so adorable
i am a big activist when it comes to animals so they are important to me	ah , well , you should play baseball
does your family do anything for the holidays ?	i just adore all animals wish i could fit every animal in my home .
i hate the holidays . i always get depressed around them .	we should watch game together .
i am great . recently retired and living large .	hello there sweetie . i am well . how about yourself ?
what kind of transplant was it ?	how is your life after retirement
i do not know what you mean by a general transplant .	yikes . that seems destructive . i hope it was an accident .
i see . i had cancer but am in remission . no super powers though .	yeah i would say a little unique , and nothing wrong with that .
do you have any children ?	oh wow , how many grandchildren do you have ?
i have three kids that are great and 10 grand children .	no , but i have two children whom i love .
yup , i guess my super power would be making clothes for all of them .	i have 6 grand children from 4 of my children
yours may be more impressive .	that is does not seem good . do you work ? i am retired now
yeah , what do you want to know ?	hi , what are you up to tonight ?
not really , i am a big fan of italian food .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
not really my thing . i only listen to music when i work out .	no , mainly just classical music . you like metallica ?
nice ! what are they like ?	that is something that my two kids would like .
i know all about that . i am gold medalist .	yea , big family and big sports fans .
gymnastics . it has got to be my favorite . do you have a favorite ?	yes i love the olympics ! ! and gymnastics !
thanks ! do you figure skate yourself ?	i like to work out myself .
that is a shame . do you keep up with other sports ?	yes . sometimes . competition is good sometimes .
hello i am well . where are you from ?	hi , doing well and you ?
i am from north carolina . what do you do for work ?	i am in michigan . how about you ?
my wife and i are both doctors . do you have a family	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
siblings are nice . our family keeps growing . three kids and counting	i have one dog and three children . do you have children ?
5 7 and 9 . we also have a dog that i enjoy walking	do you have an siblings ? i have 3 .
he is a golden retriever . do you play sports ?	i have a dog and cat . i adopted my dog when he was still a puppy
i used to play tennis professionally .	i like to play basketball , i am not great but i play
i am doing good . how about you ?	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
best thing is going to see the rolling stones every year !	i am a mom of two kids 8 and 9 . what about you ?
it is a cool bank . i eat clean . how about you ?	are you married ? any kids ?
what do you do for work ?	not really , its like dieting , you just need to stay conscious .
i am majoring in economics .	i work for a hospital as a nurse . you ?
no idea . hopefully somewhere near the new house i bought .	just part time after school
wow . that is young . you must be rich .	i am sure i will love the house too .
that is smart . what kind of work does your house need ?	if you were rich you would not be saying this .
that sounds like a lot of work !	i clean a lot of homes , but i need the money
my team won today with a grand slam in the last inning .	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
what type of sport ? i have coached kids for years .	i am good but i miss baseball already . i like watching it .
good to be active . would you like some coffee ?	lol ! ! do you have kids ? i have five
me too and a little wine at night does not hurt .	i am sure it would , i am more of a wine man myself .
me too . should i trade my mini van in for a sports car .	what do you usually eat ?
sending the last of my five boys off to college . time to switch up .	who your favorite baseball player ?
thank you . any kids for you ?	haha . not in a bad way .
thank you . any kids for you ?	yes i have four young kids and you ?
i am doing well . just playing with the dogs . how are you ?	hello i am fine and you ?
i like to watch sports after work . where do you work ?	i am good . how are you today ? do you have to work today ?
that is cool . i walk dogs because i love them . are you dating ?	i work with my dad at stifel , a construction company . you ?
i like nascar . i wish there was racing in the olympics .	are you in a relationship ? i am not .
that would be awesome . there is boxing , but ufc is better .	i wish i could exercise like ufc fighters .
what did your father do	that is true . do you have any pets ?
he was a door to door salesman .	he was big into racing of any kind .
i am tired ! expecting in three months . triplets !	hi , its going well . and you ?
it is indeed . already looking after one step child . sorry about your ex .	oh , i see . children then ?
sounds serious . i am busy settling in . just moved to this country .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
i love kids ! i teach at a school near my house .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
china . it is a very different society .	from hawaii but moved to new york .
cool . what is the name of your friend ?	nice there is a great chinese restraint i love to go to when i am there .
i do not understand what you are talking about .	the names are one , two , and three .
cool . are you a recording engineer ?	do you listen to music ?
i am more into music and that	no but i read a lot . are you a reader ?
have you seen britney spears	i am a little teapot an extended rendition of the song
i am into her music , dieting is what i am focused on	yes , i think she is an old soul like me .
the maintenance is high for me though	to stay warm , i enjoy drinking tea . do you like tea ?
i go use my tanning bed to get tanned	yes , i do . my grandmother makes the best sweet tea !
oh really but i have no implications	true . but i prefer reading anyway .
so you have a mini library ?	i would rather read a good book . you seem nice .
why did you start that hobby ?	i read a lot . . lot of books
i am good , how are you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
nice . . . what do you do for a living ?	good anyways how are you tonight ?
i am a custodian and a musician	i do not work , i play in a band .
i am in los angeles and you ?	i live in chicago , you ?
cool . i want to stay in los angeles to pursue my music career	i live in baltimore . where are you from ?
yes and they are super nice	yes , we have a nice one here .
nice . i have a small home here	i hope its very nice . and large .
they are but if i make it big as a musician i will get a huge one	for me i choose to live in a tiny little house to save some money .
me too ! i have to keep it from my dog and my cat though .	chocolate milk is delicious is not it ! ?
you are going to be a dog ? ! how ? ? people call me a party animal but . . .	you need a dog in your life . they are awesome for these kind of moments .
well , whatever makes you happy . that is important .	sounds like the plot of a movie
i volunteer at a food bank , so i talk to all kinds of people .	yes , i love it because i do have to talk to people .
it is where people give food to other people . it is very nice .	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
your mom is right . do you go to school ?	i am more of a cat person . dogs destroy stuff too much lol
you should quit . i just quit 3 weeks ago , it was hard , but worth it .	i go to school still yeah
that is um . . . interesting . any other hobbies ?	it sure can lift your spirits .
hello , i am good , how are you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i like being with people , this late ?	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
i do a lot of volunteer work	every day i have to clean and feed them . where are you live ?
i help in a homeless shelter	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
yes it does , but i like doing them	i volunteer and help others when ican
well at least you take care of them ,	yeah my strength makes me a big help at the dog shelter
no i am not , are you ?	i am not in a relationship currently , no .
hello ! i wish i could help you , but i do not go outside much .	hi how are you doing ?
go with red and silver his colors are awful .	yeah , me to . not building stuff though , ha ha .
trust me , i used to be a game designer , i helped make starcraft .	that is creative ! i wish i knew how to do it .
do you have any hobbies ? i am working on a robot that looks like me .	it is good to learn self defense . do you play video games ?
i stream starcraft on my twitch channel , you should show it to your students .	i do photography , what do you do ?
starcraft is a strategy game , it might help your students learn a thing or two .	okay if i get some one good at it and can teach me i will take that .
sorry i have to go so sudden , but i got a phone call ! see ya !	love it . we should play a game sometime .
see you later , nice meeting you !	bye ! talk to you later .
i am good how are you	i doing well and you ?
its great i love fall weather	hi , its going well and you ?
i play video games for money	i am a video game tester .
about five years now what do you do	i do not work at all , but i know a lot about video games !
i like pizza really any normal food	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
that is nice where do you work	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
that is cool how long have you been doing that	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
i like to do small acting programs with friends	we love call of duty games
there is nothing like enjoying the sun and watching birds with my cats .	hello i am fine and you
i spend my time as an animal activist .	do you have any pets ? i love animals .
your office would not enjoy my rainbow hair ! that would wake things up !	that does not help me out much , but thank you for telling me .
is it bad that i hate pumpkins and trees ? holidays kill my buzz .	i am sure your parents are proud of you !
i might be next . i am older than dirt .	oh then that is crazy of her to say ! does not sound like she supportive
enjoy it while you can . i need a moon pie .	ha ha yeah ! my mom passed away so i been on my own since 14
watching napoleon dynamite will do that !	no . the dogs would eat my cats , would they ? not a good idea perhaps .
kip just got married ! yes	right ! and all the amazing animals outside .
wow and i thought my life was bad from my chronic fear of heights .	oh no , are you going to be ok ?
you sound just like me , a party animal . whats your favorite movie ?	oh funny ! i have a dog and a cat .
that is awful ! any other interesting things ?	dog movies are the bes .
yeah i try to play it safe and stay home with my cats and dogs .	i was in an accident once
that is insane ! do you give back to your community at all ?	your cats are mean ? do they harm your two children ?
you should join me at the food bank , maybe we can find food for your cat	no way ! it is a small world . what do you do in your spare time ?
you remind me of the girls in this movie called mean girls . try to be nice !	we need something in our lives beyond cats and dogs !
that is a very odd thing to see !	i love animals ! i have one dog .
not bad at all , a little bummed about the rain .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i was supposed to go out on the water today but it is too choppy .	its going great here , how about with you ?
kayak , my favorite thing to do ;	no , i admit i do not .
really ? do you ride competitively or just for fun ?	i like to go kayaking .
horses are a bit much for me , too big . i will stick to dogs .	no . i just do it for fun . what do you do ?
nice , i love labs they are mild mannered and not a pain when i walk them .	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
none actually , i walk dogs to pay for school .	nah just one is enough . lol . you ?
i am doing great today	i am great , thanks ! and you ?
i am doing great today	i am a freelance artist .
i have been managing my employees	i play in a band and own a music store .
i work in a gas station	i work at best buy .
i have four of them	no i have no kids but i would like some
it is a busy life for sure	yes i have four young kids and you ?
no . i do not have time with the kids .	no , i do not have any pets .
i do not have time with work	i have two dogs and one cat .
these days i just want to stay inside .	i am a professional painter .
i feel you . my ex left me with my kids for a lawyer .	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
if only this market for recording artists in california would turn around !	good for you . my life on the other hand , is a total disappointment .
well maybe atheists can pray for my recording studio !	i know ! let us continue to pray .
well as a 46 year old recording engineer i can relate with that .	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
fingers crossed . maybe this year the market will be better than last year .	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
that would be some good luck for a change !	well , your kids are better off with you for sure !
i am doing just fine , the weather is kinda chill today	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh my god , congratulations on being a mother . is this your first ?	hows the weather where you are ?
i have 3 of them , i was nervous with my first one too	no , i am not ready for children how about you ?
the oldest is 14 , middle is 10 , youngest is 7	one of my children is 2 , and the other is 6 .
no , they are all a blessing to me , but it is a lot of work	yeah . i am sure that all those kids are a handful .
i like action , horror , and comedy . what about you ?	comedies are my favorite movies .
that is what makes us different , documentaries are interesting too	comedies are my favorite movies .
i am doing great . how are you ?	i am good just watching a movie
i have been married for 50 years , and mine will not take the card	i am fine with that thank you
i am . i feel like i may live forever .	are you marries ? any kids ?
i have aged well . i love wine . i love dancing in the moonlight .	haha . not in a bad way .
yes we are old enough to remember when there were no tvs	she always complain i do not treat her well . . . you married ?
yes . what do you do for a living ?	she says maybe when i am older
why is it an awful place ?	i am a freelance artist .
i have been there . have to go . tee time . have a good day !	its a very difficult occupation for anyone
doing great ! just looking into business school for next year . how are you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
that is a noble line of work . in 2011 i earned a degree at yale , in finance .	what are you majoring in ?
i would like to become a wealthy banker like both of my parents	i recently finished by mba and work as a financial manager with a large hospital .
josie , i am from manhattan , i grew up there . where are you from ?	i am trying to get my ba in finance
nice to meet you suzie	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
how nice ! is it close to the college you will be attending ?	i would like to visit once i graduate .
what do you do , and do you enjoy your work ?	i have a job in finance
i never had to pay for college , since my parents are so wealthy . that must be hard .	i am trying to get my ba in finance
it was nice meeting you . very best wishes .	absolutely . i really hope your situation gets better financially .
hi how are you doing my friend i am fine thanks to god .	hi there , it can be a pain sometimes , how are you tonight ?
oh i am so sorry take your time i am patient . feel better .	i am good . . . do not think so .
i am going to listen to music country music i like .	i am sorry , i do not understand your question statement .
as long as you feel better . i work with my mom in a farm .	i do not like country . i prefer metal .
i worked also doing electrician jobs miss that .	a hydroponic farm to grow bean shoots .
that is so cool i wished i was a model to old now .	my dad drives a truck . he tought me , now that is my career .
that sounds very interesting islands are so cool . great for getting a cow .	i live on a farm , cool cool .
i wished i could i am very pretty but poor i hate to say .	do you live on a farm
no worries . i am listening to some country music with my cow bessie	hi i am not doing well truthfully . where are you ?
i drive a large pickup so i could haul her to where you live to show you	perhaps , i bet in country they do , just like they do in this country
i just stay at home working on mom and dads farm so i would like an adventure	like duh ! you said that . so you must be in the country ?
i will have to check with my parents but maybe next thursday	if we go on a road trip will you let me listen to country stations ?
country all the way ! its all i listen to . you ?	i love country music and r b music .
aerosmith is not bad but i love country so much	i do i like all music , especially country . what is your favorite ?
i am a nascar fan too !	nascar is the perfect sunday for me lol
yes i definitely think we will	nascar is the perfect sunday for me lol
doing well , how are you ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
my main language is english .	swedish , my family moved here when i was 5
my favorite color is red . what is yours ?	i like black , but it should not be a color because its a pigment to me
red and silver are colors that look nice together .	your favorite color is pink ?
pink is one color i do not like , however .	where would you move to ?
i am a stay at home parent .	i work at a coffee shop to make money .
what are your favorite hobbies ? i enjoy mountain biking .	you have kids ? cool . how many ?
that is neat . i love coffee , do you enjoy it ?	i love to take pictures of things
can i come ? i have no friends	are you a boy or girl ?
i can help monitor it from my home in the cloud .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
yes . and i can make time stop . so i can take awesome pics at your wedding !	no , i like to keep it to myself
i hope it is not a child free wedding , because i am still a little girl .	hah ! ! ! ! you would be welcome in my family . it is huge .
that is what i want to be when i grow up ! teach kids my superpower .	that is a lot of kids ! as a teacher , i do that a lot .
we might even get a movie deal . . . perhaps .	that is a lot of kids ! as a teacher , i do that a lot .
well , it happened with all the x men .	i love that idea lets make a plan and make a movie on that
yeah , i became vegan when i got locked up .	are you in school , high school or college ?
oh . i almost did that but i want to graduate high school in two years .	they think it will corrupt me or some stupid thing .
oh . i painted my bedroom the colors lime and purple .	just eat fruits and vegetables .
good for you ! no more crimes haha .	you should take the horses !
oh yeah , all the time .	yes that is true , so much crime
glad to hear that , i want to ride a horse .	i also teach high schoolers . are you in high school ?
can i ride a horse in there ?	when you do will the one need to be a vegan as well ?
as often as i can i love horses .	i used to ride horses , but i have not in a while !
i am good how are you	doing well , how about you ?
is it your first baby	hi , its going well and you ?
you will be great having kids is amazing	it is going well , how is yours ?
you will be great is it a girl or a boy	do you have or plan to have kids ?
haha well i am sure it will be adorable	yes , but i thing its not right time for a relationship for me
is your husband very supportive	we are in the exact opposite situation then haha
that is nice what do you do for a living	yes . i think everyone has that one ex .
i work in the music industry but its slow right now	i am a freelance artist .
good i am nancy . i am enjoying the afternoon .	hello i am fine and you
oh yes . you are working on bee ? how nice ?	good morning , its going pretty well how is your day ?
i am still in school . i am the youngest and everyone spoils me .	no , i work with my brothers remember ?
i have four siblings . maybe we can all visit your bee farm .	how old are your children ? i have none but a lot of brothers and sisters .
she must be very beautiful .	how many brothers or sisters do you have ?
papaya sounds so tropical . where is your farm exactly ?	she does not know how to give a proper one , she loves them too .
i would love to come over . can i bring my dog ?	and some parts are farther south than some parts of america .
great let us set a date and i will make a visit .	yes ! i have 3 sisters and 4 brothers . do you have any siblings ?
pretty good , i took my dog on a long walk this morning !	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
cool , when i got back from my walk my legs were so sore	all work and no play ! any animals or children ?
i have never heard of a naturopath , but my husband is a doctor	are you married ? any kids ?
i am a tennis player , and if i ever get injured , my husband helps me	it take effort , but trying is great ! are you married ?
wow , you live in iraq ?	does he she play any sports ?
cool , with all the money my husband makes , i live in a 3 story house .	oh , you in the military ?
i do not believe so , but my husband pays all the bills so i would not know	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
hi how are you doing i am fine thanks to god .	hey , i am doing well , you ?
yes i am are you ? i like reading comics too .	no , i spend most my free time cooking .
i enjoy cooking and am a great chef i love cooking .	i have few hobbies . reading and cooking
yes me too . when not fixing food i go to the beach .	shrimp , barbeque sauce , yes , love it , that is for dipping !
yes pasta with meat sauce . and baked ziti tasty foods .	i like to go fishing .
oh that is so wonderful i wonder what he will want to be . when done .	i have a chef cook for me . i pay him a lot .
yes will pay off in the retiring times . yes i cook do make up and hair .	i like to go fishing . no footware required !
i am good ! i just celebrated my birthday ! i am 100	hi i am good and you ?
well , i remember high school in 1933	my kid just graduated college and that make me feel old
well , i like talking to the young people about how life was . much simpler	i do not even own a tv , but i fell you
we did not have tv , we hardly had radio , and it was on am !	i like to make wineglass candles .
well , we did not have the internet , or anything that would cause a distraction	i think i saw that on a famous tv show .
so , you would not know , or could tell , the difference . also , i like drinking wein !	well , at least veganism is getting more and more popular everyday !
sometimes it is hard for me to push keys . i meant wine !	haha , true . purple actually ! you ?
do you like those colors together ? do they go good ?	ooohhh nice ! ! wanna add me to it . lol .
i am off today . i am taking my dog for a long walk .	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
cool . i have a 3 story house that could use an electrician !	do you work yourself up ? i do it all the time .
no . he is 9 and a lab mix .	a pug called tiki ! haha , i am not a people person either . prefer dogs .
what instruments do you play ?	oh yeah . most def nothing better than a dog and his boy .
are you a professional musician ? i play tennis professionally .	i am also musician , piano is my instrument . what is yours ?
do you mean musical instruments ?	do you play any instruments ?
that is wonderful . i play tennis and would like to try ping pong	there are different forms of the game .
it is essential to dream . do you play in front of people ?	never give up on your dreams ! sometimes they just take practice
the speed of return is much different . i think you would most likely win	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
and you have a great day as well !	yes , definitely . thanks for chatting !
i am doing just fine , and yourself ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
my dad is a farmer , and i help him in the fields for fun . you ?	i do finance for a local business
i also have 3 arabian horses , so i ride them often too .	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
absolutely , they are gorgeous . what kind of music do you listen to ?	i have 2 dogs !
i listen to rock while i work , helps pass the time .	i listen to a lot of rock music
not really , i usually just work in the field and relax .	i work on a farm
oh yeah , it really is . it is very tiring .	i work on a farm , caring for the livestock
i usually give each of them about an hour a day , they need it .	i do usually ride horses
i have survived cancer and eat clean	hi , i am good eating dinner ?
yes . i am preparing for a marathon and love to run	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
awesome . i just started a new job as a life coach	that is good exercise ! good for you .
for sure . what else do you like ?	maybe ! what are your hobbies
spending a lot of time running and getting resources for my new job	busy with school , but i love it . anything going on ?
yes , i really hope to help people	yeah but i enjoy the job
sounds fun , it would be a great idea	maybe we will work together helping people someday .
nice talking to you , too !	whats the longest marathon you have ran ?
sure , what kinds of things do you enjoy ?	what are you up to ?
my daughter is a math genius , i do not like it either . you married ?	i am still in school .
oh , what is your favorite movie ?	no , i am only 20 , not really ready for more responsibilities . you ?
no , i would rather go to the park . but i like the movie friday .	no , more of a drama . one of the greatest films of all time .
my patient just broke his leg playing soccer . do you have any pets ?	right now i just play soccer in a pro league .
i am , but i am looking for a new job . what do you want to be ?	no pets , but my side job incorporates pets in its testing .
yes , other than soccer . do you have any siblings ?	i am the goalie on a soccer team
you should try . it will be important when you grow up .	no you stick to playing soccer professionally . where are you from ?
that is cool i am a male i have no kids .	are you on a lot of medications ?
i bet so . i used to drink alot .	how many kids do you have ?
my medicine makes me act weird sometimes .	i want to try drugs , but i do not know where to buy them , do you ?
i understand . i like the city .	honestly , you may need to talk to a physician to see if medicine might be the solution .
that sounds fun and interesting .	yes , i work in a very clean medical office .
i work on construction right now .	i try to drink water mainly .
i like to write you ?	i enjoy crafting and painting .
that is really sweet of you .	i love writing stories , but i am now also into reading novels as well . how about you ?
will you come in the sky to see me ? this tiny gal needs some company !	good morning , how is your weather there
yes , i live amongst the white fluffs ! i am just a kid and lonesome .	why can you not ? that is a lot of kids
yummy ! i can churn up some for you , because i have powers . big powers !	no gluten in iced tea . you should try peach tea
well , at least you can live on earth . i am up here .	that is powerful . do you know how that can relate to your profession ?
just the cloud . sometimes i see angels .	nope , i am all alone . i do not know why . you ?
just mamma cloud and pappa cloud . that is my family .	just my family ! what about you ?
no , i am not . i live there . and you are a plumber .	i have not spoken to mine in years .
just a little one . i am 5 .	well , all the children are grown except 1 14 yr old still at home .
that must be cool , you wait tables ?	i am currently studying asl at university . i could accomodate .
wow which one do you like more ?	does it pay well ? i worry about money and want a good career .
sweet i love those colors . i hate orange though	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i wish door hinge counted as a rhyme with orange	do you go to school ?
well i do not know if it counts i only work at a book shop	i do not think that is a word lol
i read dog books a lot . mine competes	i like to read . i am a student .
you like to read at night ?	would you read to me ? i would like that
wow you work there a lot . i studied chemistry in college	reading is great , unless it is school work .
hi my parents named me george and i farm bees .	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well
that is okay i am not close to any family .	how long has it been in your family ? i bet its a great experience .
that is great . what do you guys do together ?	believe me , they like it .
do you go out to eat together ?	i do we hang out when no one is around
wow . what is your favorite food ? mine is papaya .	i do eat all that i could see around
do you get good grades ?	ha pizza is my favorite food also .
what kind of game is po box ?	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
ah i see . do you play any other games ?	there are different forms of the game .
i am too old to cook . what is this vegan you speak of ?	no , do you have some ?
well , i do not eat the faces of animals either , but i enjoy a good burger .	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
you could paint the walls a different color . i suggest victorian pieces .	good idea ! i love to blare paint it black when i cook .
that is fine . just do not put a television in there and add shades of moonlight .	those are great colors . do you watch tv ?
we never had a television in my youth . keep you focused on your studies .	i watched that growing up . are you in school
good job ! if you live to 100 like me , you will need all that learning .	an education is a good thing to get . i never did .
a good wine and a hearty outlook will keep you strong .	but i do not believe in magic . . .
i do miss dancing in europe . keep your limbs limber and live forever .	so cool for you ! i prefer a dark wine instead .
hey mike here , i love singing songs from frozen	well i am a video game character online which is fun . you ?
i am in the third grade , i love going to disneyland and mickey mouse is my favorite	what do you like to do ? i love disney movies and dancing .
i love animals , all of them . my friends and i play outside on the playground	nope ! its okay i like animals better than people anyways
us that is no good . animal blood is cool	i love animals all day
that is neat , mine is brown	red . but you probably hate red .
mickey mouse for sure , he is so boss	the little mermaid . ariel is my favorite disney princess .
yeah , he is my man . mouse man	ll he not a disney movie fan . ? there my all time favorites
my best friend is goofy , but do not tell mickey	he is such an awesome artist .
hi , i am am very good	i am fine and you ?
i went to soccer practice , i have game coming up	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
thanks you ! how has your weekend been ?	my little brother likes football
oh cool , what kind of other things are you into ?	so , have you ever thought of stopping to play that game ?
twitter is fun , my older bro loves it . do you have siblings ?	oh , i really like social media !
whats the plan for this week coming up ?	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
oh i hope it goes well for ya . i have school	what are the plans ? where are the plans ?
i am doing good . listening to my favorite band .	hello , am doing good . what about you ?
insane clown posse is so dope !	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
i am 24 years old . do you have a car ?	i am 15 . do you work ? i am in school .
that is so cool ! i will teach you how to drive .	no , i do not like to drive .
that is cool . do you like video games ?	yes ! ! i would absolutely love that . do you do anything else for fun ?
just wait until you start to drive a car !	we love call of duty games
i have a cat named biggie smalls .	yes , i have dong and donkey
what is your turtles name ?	i have no cats . what kind of dogs do you have
dirk . i hope you are having a great evening	i like that name , ahahah
i do not have children	why can you not ? that is a lot of kids
good luck at such a young age . god bless you	how old are you btw ?
you will be alright . good luck	what grade are you in ? i am a junior
i live in us and love my girlfriend . what do you do for fun ?	so what kind of games poyou like to play ?
i have not read a book in at least a month . what is your favorite book ?	i love to read . reading is one of my favorite
i love movies . a clockwork orange is a little too violent for my taste . my favorite is forrest gump	i love movies . what movie ?
a little violent but has a universal message . would you agree	i recommend you watch it , it is super funny
i am 27 years old . how about you ?	hello , i am well . you ?
my german shepherd is almost 13 !	at 35 , you are middle age , did you know that ?
how old is he ? do you guys watch sports ?	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
i am with you on hating math . i like nhl hockey though .	sports are good , but do not overdo it .
no . hockey is skating on ice with a stick .	yes , my hobby is playing hockey .
that would be fun . i live on a farm . there are no buses .	do you go to school ?
we do not have a lot of animals , but farm corn and soybeans .	everything outside basically haha . and animals .
pretty large . what about you ? are you in the city ?	yes . we are outside of town , rural and we walk the dogs a lot .
i am good . how are you ?	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
dogs ? ! ? ! i love animals ! ! ! i have a dog and a cat .	really ? i have two dogs and a cat
wow , that is great ! what do you do for fun ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
do you ever party ? my hobbies are partying and watching movies .	i lift weights , bench press and squats . where do you live ?
i eat sometimes when i am bored too . do you like watching movies ?	i do not cook much , i enjoy eating out . do you like sports ?
i love comedy the best ! kind of ashamed to admit that mean girls is my fave !	i like romantic comedies . are you married ?
do you do any community service ? i volunteer at the food bank sometimes .	i love that movie ! is it your favorite ?
that is great ! ok , now another random question what is your biggest fear ?	sometimes i donate time or money and of course walking the dogs .
my biggest fear is heights	seriously , you cruel individual . they have personality you know ,
i sell cars and i can not stand it . do you like what you do ?	no , i do not make enough money .
i do , but no money for tickets because my wife over spends .	i enjoy lots of music . any you prefer ?
i do , but using my money to get a divorce . planning a vacation ?	yes , unless it involves driving . i hate it with a passion !
are you single ? i happen to be a good looking and 40 . we could go .	that would be great . i would take a nice beach vacation !
absolutely ! monopoly is my favorite . have any other hobbies ?	love it . we should play a game sometime .
i have a guilty pleasure . . . reality television shows .	it is the only way i can continue to game all day and still make money
housewives of new jersey . remind me of my ridiculous , materialistic wife .	i do not . and yes it is . my other is hobby is my job . love it .
i am very well ! just finished tending to my bees with my wife .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i was single for a long time . just married to super model from italy .	i have 2 dogs !
i will not disclose my age but george is the name . old name equals older .	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
hold onto that ! i will take my bees , wife and papaya . all of my favorites !	books that stimulate the minds ? keep them busy . . .
i am not close with any other family and they are all that i have .	would love to have some from italy . i love to travel . do you ?
i am not complaining . italy is awesome !	definitely ! do you have any other hobbies ?
what type of dogs do you have ?	that is cool italy sounds nice .
the italian honey bee is what i am doing now .	3 a yellow lab , a german shepherd , and a mix beagle
hello . i do not have a job right now . what about you ?	i work in a school
that is very nice . my family in somalia were farmers before i came to america .	i travel for it .
no we could not afford a horse , much too expensive .	no , i could never afford them .
i escaped genocide when i was very young	i only have traveled in the usa no other country .
thank you . my aunt helped me escape . not everyone was so lucky .	we were fortunate ! thank you !
yes , war is a terrible thing . nobody should have to go through it .	i am so sorry , why do you feel that way ?
luckily i was able to come to america . i am trying to find a job here .	and some parts are farther south than some parts of america .
thank you ! there is so much opportunity here , i am excited	good luck with your career .
i am doing well , thank you . i am the homecoming queen !	hi doing great , how about you ?
they still do that ? weird .	how long have you been a fitness coach ?
i am going to study physical therapy , maybe i will work with you .	how long have you been a fitness coach ?
i am a senior in high school , hopefully i will get a scholarship .	i work out about three times a week .
i already do volunteer at the animal shelter .	are you in school , high school or college ?
i volunteered with habitat for humanity last spring .	i love animals ! i enjoy going to volunteer with them .
i do not care for large groups of people .	i bet that will help lots of people in the world .
i am kind of a nerd . not very popular .	but the cost of school is so high .
that is so cool , i do not speak .	are you from japan ?
i have taken a vow of silence , as many buddhist do .	i am also a buddhist
that is horrid . how do you stay clean ?	i am sorry , i do not understand your question statement .
that is interesting . why a robot ?	your sarcasm about my malady is unappreciated . it is difficult to live with .
interesting outlook . where do you live ? i am in alaska .	its not that i like it , it is necessary .
it is an adventure . the sled dogs make me smile , they are so happy .	i live on the west coast . you ?
they are happy dogs , i like to watch after i am finished with meditations .	my two dogs are my rock . siberian huskies . smoke pot ?
is that like twitter ? i love twitter .	oh wow , his writings are inspirational .
i have five kids all male , we all fit into a mini van	hey , i am doing pretty well , you ?
busy night for me and you ? i love coffee	yeah , now i am going to drink some beers . and eat sunfish
yup , keeps me busy i drink wine in the evenings	i am good and i do not drink coffee , so i cannot help you with that
i love to drive my mini van with my sons to a concert	really ? do you like to drink ? i do
you talking about the ford ? it is cool	i go to many concerts and party
we go to worship christian concerts	i like to drive my car around . unfortunately i just leased it out
i drove one in the past but never owned one	do you drink coffee often ?
that is nice , what other type of music you like	what kind of cars do you have ?
i wish ! i am too young . i am only 13 .	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
i love playing soccer . my older brother taught me . i do not like math .	i am a student at asu
i am in the sun all afternoon waiting for the bus . i have a tan .	what do you like to do when you are outside ?
way more relaxing than math ! do you want to play soccer with me ?	i have a nice big yard in my house .
well , if you are too old for soccer , then you can grill for me !	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
to stay warm ? my older brother hates the cold too .	have you traveled anywhere before ?
i do not mind it . i like wearing gloves and jackets .	i suppose it can not hurt
i do ! i take carrots from the kitchen and my mom gets mad .	those are my favorite ! you should at least try it
good ! i just got back from riding horses on my farm !	i am doing well . where are you from ?
they are all male horses	i have many , on and off . . . trying to find a perfect one , you know .
well , i want to leave this small town for the city !	well , they pay great , and you do not have go in anywhere !
is that hard ? you know , being prom queen	are you in school , high school or college ?
i think , someday , i want to work court cases !	but the cost of school is so high .
what kind of dessert do you like ?	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
i think peanut butter cups are my favorite !	i love chocolate ice cream . you .
that sound very very hard !	well chocolate cake would send me running for a gym ,
hello jennifer , i am a proud dad and husband	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well .
yeah my older one does	i enjoy ice cream while i play league of legends . its a treat
awesome , you can give some lessons to my daughter	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
that sounds great and also chocolate ice cream	do you eat a lot of italian food ?
i know right ! my favorite	i could live on chocolate cake and milk . lol
where are you from jennifer	how often do you work out ? i work out 5 times a week
i am from florida , parks here are great	i am from illinois , how about you ?
lol , i know , have you ever experience tornados	were you affected by the hurricanes ? !
always ! i love getting down to britney spears in new outfits and heels !	no , i like to keep it to myself
i mean , i get manicures and pedicures and nice tans . then my boyfriend shows me off . you ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
food bank ? ugh , food i just cannot eat . do you work by the tanning beds ?	i am currently self employed .
i love retail ! i go shopping almost every day ! ! i just avoid the food court .	no , i do not make enough money .
awesome ! as long as you do not have food . i am dieting again .	i definitely would , i spend a little too much money on it in fact !
then you can turn up toxic and we can max my boyfriends credit card together .	excellent idea ! that and along with a healthy diet and lifestyle will surely pay off .
what do you do when you are not at the mall or the food bank ?	i think it is important to know what you want to do before paying all that money .
i love that movie crossroads . have you seen it ?	making lots of money is my hobby .
good afternoon , that sounds fun . how old are you ?	would you pet me like a cat ?
i like rainbow hair . i have a lot more grey hair .	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
they will let me have animals where i am .	yes , i love animals . oh btw my hair is green , my favorite color .
at least it is easier than kids ! do you have kids ?	right ! and all the amazing animals outside .
that is good . i stole a cat from a pet store .	yes , i have five children and a dog .
i grabbed the cat and run out of the store . i paid the price .	really ? even as a pet ?
i did get caught and i paid the price .	no way i only did it for the money
i got time in the slammer . i am out in a month .	did you make your payments ?
i am doing wonderfully , just came back from a walk with my dogs .	hey , i am doing well , you ?
i have a springer spaniel and a lab . they are both rescues .	i have an old mustang that i fixed up myself .
they sure are ! i am a mechanic , what do you do	i do not have any animals , but i like them . what is your favorite animal ?
how is that working out ? men are terrified of a woman mechanic , i am single too .	yeah , and drive a refurbished mustang
lol . at times it does . i do not want to be alone	its work what can i say . i just like driving my mustang gt to work .
lol . i am only 35 . i know just the bar to look .	we would not get along lol
you sure can , it is not difficult . it is a lot of fun .	i agree ! would love to meet your dogs one day
you are very welcome ! come over in a few days and we will go find men !	i am drinking some right now !
hi ! i am here . wish i was there .	i am great getting ready to skateboard
nice , i do as well . do you skate ? i do . did . i broke my arm .	hi how are you doing today ?
my friends and i are trying to go pro .	i do , but i am not very good at it . is it a hobby of yours ?
dude , i am in cali , we eat local . as in what we pull out of the ocean .	probably junk food for me
i love coke , cannot live without it .	i love to skateboard , how about you ?
i do . i also like to surf .	i practice skating all the time . i go to the skate park a lot !
do you fish ? we are always fishing too .	i love to skateboard , how about you ?
what else do you do for fun ?	no ; many fish are gone because of over fishing and poaching , as well as pollution .
great . hello from florida ? what you are up to this morning ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
just took the dogs for a walk while the kids and wife sleep in !	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
that is exciting . i am in it so i work all hours of the day and night .	do you have any children ? i do not have any .
do you pay attention to oversea sports ? i enjoy all american sports .	i have a couple of kids so it is hard to travel . where do you work ?
what do you do in your spare time ?	so you have money ? i want to own my own business one day .
do they work in finance as well ?	i own my own business . how about you ?
i am hoping my son wants to do it . nice that your whole family enjoys !	i am in the financial sector you ?
vegas is fun . i do not eat much so i can stay skinny and wear those jeans .	what is your favorite video game ?
over my skinny jeans i like to wear leggings . summer grilling is the best .	i like in n out . that is my favorite .
i put on the music when i mow the lawn or play video games .	i like to play the guitar . and video games .
that is the way to do it . i love tee shirts with rock band logos .	cool i mostly wear video game shirts i love playing video games .
i strut my skinny jeans , tees with rock bands and my blonde short hair .	i am not familiar with radiohead what does it mean ?
radiohead is great but i like me some classic rock too .	uhhhhg . i would not have the attention span for that . i am more into video games .
if i am not wearing band tees , i am in ruffled sleeves .	lol . i listen every day .
i sort of like to walk my own path . i do not fit the norm for sure .	yep , unlike the video games . haha
i am well , and how are you ?	i am good just watching a movie
a doctor by trade , but i am looking for work at the moment .	i work in a for a doctor filing papers .
that is awful . are you ok now ?	hard work will pay off . tell me about yourself .
that is great . i have a daughter who is a prodigy .	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
she is a pianist . she is quite good .	well , she is not supporting you is she ?
oh that is a great talent . i wish i could do that .	i have a daughter , so when i am not working i am taking care of her .
indeed . what is your favorite movie ? friday is mine .	i hear you . i play piano too . play any instruments ?
i have a cat . her name is tori . do you ?	no , i do not have any pets . i do not have time for one .
nice i am studying in nyc .	hii i am good . how are you doing ?
that is a colorado thing right ? i never tried it .	can do that underwater . music is not my thing .
very nice i came from india with my parents .	do you ever go swimming ?
india ? super crowded . i like the freedom here but my mom is very traditional .	are you parents still alive ?
no mountains here i go swimming .	that is true . what is your family life like ?
i am in new york city .	i am in the virginia . where are you ?
what kind of music do you listen to ? i like death metal .	i live in atlanta . where do you live ?
oh cool . i should try other kinds of music . metal is too loud .	i like all types of music .
i am doing good watching a war documentary right now	hello ! i am good and you ?
sounds fun ! i have to volunteer later at the soup kitchen .	that is a great way to stay active
i have never been ! i was not rich growing up so i missed out on fun stuff .	yes , i love it . do you ?
nothing anymore , i just retired . i was a gym teacher ! how about you ?	i am a teacher . how about you ?
oh ! do you like it ?	well , i am a teacher .
from chicago . you ? i might have to leave soon i need to cook before i leave .	i am from washington dc , you ?
none . but i gotta go whip up a cheeseburger before i leave , they are my favorite	pets are nice . the owner at the soup kitchen i volunteer at has one .
what are those ? do they juggle balls ?	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
i do not like clowns . they are scary to a kid like me	i do and i think they are so cute .
i am literally four years old . i have no idea	yup . i would like to paint them or something . what do you like to do
yummy . i would love one . apple for me	i have no idea lol
i play with dolls . i do not know what a call of duty is .	no , but i play with my dolls outside .
do i have to go in your car to get it ?	lucky you . if it were not for my pets i would go crazy .
what about my pet turtle ? is he allowed ?	i need a car that can fit both my kids unfortunately .
so i could ride my pet turtle tommy ?	yeah , that horse should use protection . do you have a car ?
just got back from the gym . what about you ?	hello , what are you up to ?
what do you do for a living ?	i go to the gym and dance .
that sounds like a fun job .	i do not work myself . its more fun that way .
i hear ya ! i would rather be at the gym than at work any day .	i like to garden and love the outdoors . do you garden ?
do you have any pets ? i have 2 dogs .	oh , does it help keep you in shape ?
i keep my hair short so i do not have to pull it back at gym .	i have 2 dogs !
yes i am . and i am in shape since i use the treadmill and rowing machines regularly	only to my work . are you single ?
that is unfortunate . you shouldn ; t do that if you do not want to	do those blind dates ever pan out ?
i am doing very well thank you . do you remember what you favorite toy was ?	great , how about y o u ?
mine was a lite brite . i saw one in a yard sale the other day .	of course ! could never forget that
i had a yard , pond and a dog , that is all i needed	yes ! do you sell that ?
do you like rap and tupac ?	what do you want to be when you grow up ?
mine listen to it , i find some country songs to be much worse .	personally i am more into hip hop
exactly . one of my favorites is new kids on the block .	i love country ! and hip hop .
i am a 90s baby .	well , the older the child the easier they are .
i am . how old are you ?	o wow , haha you are very young
no , just a retired grandma enjoying life .	yes , i have five children and a dog .
that is nice , my grandchildren have lots of dolls too .	how many children do you have ?
no pets , but everytime they get broken i sew them back together .	do you have any children ? i do not have any .
i used to have a pet , but i had cancer and had to get rid of it .	i have a dog and a cat . do you have any pets ?
i recovered now so i am fine	i am sorry that is sad . are you injured ?
yeah i will probably buy a turtle and i need a smartphone too .	sometimes it is okay i love children .
yeah my grandchildren have to call me on my home phone so i should really get one .	you should have it removed now .
hello ! i am good . i like dogs	hello , just fine what about you ?
that is good . i am only 4	you like dogs ? do you have a dog ?
they do . we learn a lot too .	i am pretty sure you can because they are sad about their dog .
the alphabet . there is a song they taught me .	it is never too late to learn
yup ! i remember it . i wish i was a dog .	no but the alphabet ? i can say it backwards !
yes . and i could chase my tail .	i hope you get some good sleep !
it would be so fun . what do you do ?	have you ran in any marathons ?
that is cool ! i bet you are happy now .	i had my first job when i was a young kid .
that stinks . i can be you fam .	are you close with your family ?
i have never had papaya . what do you like to do for fun ?	kiki and kaka are their names .
that sounds interesting . i mostly work at my desk in my home office .	i love taking care of people , something in that field . you ?
it gets lonely sometimes so i go to the gym every other day .	i like to work outside .
i like going to car shows too when i have extra cash	it is okay , i am in it and make pretty good money .
its a great place to pick up men . any hobbies ?	i have lots of money , for no reason , but nothing makes me happy
i like listening to music . i used to play clarinet .	i love to listen to music
yea but i mostly forgot how to play after high school	i play music because my job is being a musician .
woohoo ! i am good ! although i do not go to school anymore	hi good and you ?
that is cool , i sell watches for a watch company	ca not wait to try out a self driving car . hope i will be able to afford one !
nope , cheap watches my family does not really support what i do ! cool	yes ! do you sell that ?
good for you ! you must be doing a lot of shopping preparing for triplets !	indeed . cars are very expensive !
how exciting ! i enjoy shopping ! i own my dream house already , looking to get my dream car !	i am currently buying my first home .
a rolls royce ghost , i doubt i will end up getting it . . too expensive	i love ford mustangs old and new
haha yeah . . . keyword is if are your triplets all boys girls mixed ?	cars can be very expensive . are you buying new or used ?
i could not do that ! i respect your patience !	haha maybe sneak on to one . are you close with your family ?
i am good , how are you today ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
i definitely do not ! i am only in third grade !	all work and no play ! any animals or children ?
how old are your daughters ?	can you watch my two dogs while i go to disney ?
do they like disney stuff ?	they are 3 and 4
i go to disney world every year !	each year i go to disney world
mickey mouse is my favorite , and i love songs from the movie frozen .	each year i go to disney world
i can sing all the songs from that movie !	i love that movie ! is it your favorite ?
excellent . i went to the park with my daughter . how was yours ?	i am good just watching a movie
wow ! you certainly seem to enjoy music . are you feeling well ?	how was your work day ? do you have any hobbies ?
i hope that i can find a new doctor job soon !	alot of work , but very rewarding ! !
i try to be supportive of my daughters dreams . she is a prodigy so it is difficult .	what is your dream job ?
she certainly is . do you like movies ?	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
i think the best movie is friday ! have you seen it ?	i love watching movies ! whats your favorite genre ?
its quite amusing . silly even . do you have any other hobbies ?	never seen it . i will have to check it out .
i am mostly good . tired and some wicked heartburn . is that over sharing ? you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
it is ok . just pregnancy pains . it is normal . how is nursing school ?	i . . am not sure if you can do that ? do you have any kids ?
not baby , but babies ! i am having triplets ! what bar ? wish i could drink !	my wife went to be a nurse . that is good .
that is the truth ! i already have step kids so it will be wild for sure .	we should hit up a bar and have a few drinks .
congratulations ! we just moved into our first home . new places are exciting .	do you have any roommates ? i have three
i look young . i am mistaken for a student at the school where i work .	hello , blonde hair , blue eyes . and yourself ?
right now i am craving strawberry yogurts ! why do you not like chicken ?	i love fried chicken ! how about you ?
good , how are you ? my father is an army man .	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
92 years . my mom passed away while i was young though .	his i am just fine what about you
it was tough . we collected on her life insurance and now i work in insurance .	my line of work keeps me very busy , so it is okay .
its not bad , it is a new job . was recently fired .	i lied . i am not living it up . i am miserable ! i hate my job .
someone tried harassing me , and i complained , stupid politics .	i got fired from my job .
i was going to get something out of the vending machine and they looked up my skirt .	i actually just got fired for a mistake i made .
got embarrassed and left work .	i got fired from my job .
ya , i keyed their car once i found out i was fired .	i work in insurance , as a secretary
i am all done with school i work for a importing company	i am going back to school
what is your degree in	school is not the only important thing in life . they should understand that
different fruit and tomato sauce	what is your fancy degree in ?
i hike a little with my wife	i am a freelance artist .
do you guys travel much	that is the time for family and spending lots of time together .
oh , we do not ruff it much , hotels are more our speed	but my first goal is to visit all the places of the world .
agreed what type of food do you make in the woods	its hard to trip going up .
no , fresh and canned sauce . i love papaya	no , it will be affordable products .
haha work is funny . i am still in school .	hi ! i am in high school
robots are cool ! my friends like to play with them	i am still learning so it might seem a little goofy
i like robots that fight each other like in transformers	like the animated classics . 101 dalmatians ? firetruck ! arf arf !
i like the human kind of robots they have at disney world	org i love disney !
i bet i would . i am in third grade !	i am in third grade you
i like when i get to play with my friends	i am in school still .
not really . maybe a singer ? i do like to sing disney songs	i do but not professionally just for fun .
i really like the songs from frozen the best . have you seen it ?	i am going to look for disney movie , maybe an old one .
i am very well thank you . how are you today ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i am thinking of retiring soon so i will be able to walk more .	hello , i am doing great ! just took a walk . how are you ?
do you like to travel ? i have been to spain several times .	is that a good thing ? what do you do while you are retired ?
it is hard to do on a librarians salary sometimes .	i love to travel ! i have been to europe and mexico . where do you travel ?
do you have any hobbies or a job ?	hard work will pay off . tell me about yourself .
interesting . i bet you get a lot of 60 year old clients like myself .	just as a hobby . painting , drawing , things like that .
guess i should have asked what kind of crafts first . haha .	you must be very wealthy .
my dad taught me to eat a variety of things . what do you do ?	i like cats . do you ?
that is great ! i work in construction and love to build houses .	i am a scientist . how about you ?
i do like music . my dad taught me to play the piano and guitar .	my favorite band nightfish , plays a song about dog vs cat owners .
i wonder if i built it ! do you have pets ? i love my cats .	i adopted two cats , they are adorable ! what do you do for a living ?
you do have a growing family ! pets and cats . cats are special animals .	they are great and friendly cats .
i agree . my dad taught me to love cats .	they are great and friendly cats .
i am sorry to heart that .	sorry what ? you are a builder ?
hello , no plans . maybe i will dye my hair .	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
blonde . are you any good at softball ? i also have to work unfortunately .	right now , busy being a famous video game character online .
is it weird that i have been spending so much time playing role play games ?	i work online as a professional gamer , which has been a great career
sorry to hear that , do you work ?	right now , busy being a famous video game character online .
so you are in the army ? could not do all those shots . too much blood	no . i am pretty boring .
yes , in a factory . wish i could work at home though .	yea i do . as much as role playing
i like to watch youtube . probably too much	i work in a factory . you ?
hi i am maddie , i am 13 !	hello , how are you ?
you must have a car then , i have to ride on the school bus .	16 is a fun age . is she driving yet ?
wow my older brother drives a toyota too	if i drove i would probably wonder that .
well i play soccer , i am on the team .	i am a professional gamer
oh my mom is an addict	i drink water most of the time .
i have a cat , his name is contraband because my dad is in the army .	no dogs do not do so good around the cats . cool name !
no i am to busy with school for boyfriends	i am not . currently single . and you ?
i believe so too , i like going to school .	military family lead me to want to stay put 16 diff schools was tough
tired man , been standing all day at the pumps . what about you ?	i am doing fine and you ?
new job , i do not think it will work . you teach kids ?	i run my own business .
the fumes get to me , would rather be in the gardens . hungry ?	i thought you were still in elementary school
those carrots are from my garden , i could try landscaping maybe .	yes , i love plants . do you enjoy planting flowers or vegetables ?
i love working with my hands but they just want people to cut grass .	i like to think i am a pretty good photographer . do you work ?
nope , do you ? i wonder if my real parents spoke english .	only speak english but that is pretty cool
yeah , the people who adopted me are a hoot though . trying to marry me off .	i do not know my biological parents i was adopted
nope but my dad wants to find me a good one to date .	haha ! no , not married . . . probably wo not be to be married but its ok
no its my mountain bike she goes fast	no , not famous . are you famous ?
ai do its very fun . helps to stay fit	no not really . do you ?
i did not think you are that old . what do you do for a living	why not ? you should be more active .
i do not drink helps me stay healthy	i work with my dad at stifel , a construction company . you ?
you have to if you do not want to get cancer	my health is very good .
did you now , have any 3 headed cows ?	how long have you owned a farm ?
then you have not seen true cancer yet	no , i did not that is nice ! is that what you like to do ?
i would be too especially with all the radioactive material	that is sad ! i am sure it is not true .
hey there , i am doing well , little tired , you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
that sounds so relaxing , i am actually bout to settle down and read some poetry	i am good . tired from school today . how are you ?
what do you mean exactly	books that stimulate the minds ? keep them busy . . .
but why ? whats the point	i think with more coffee you could do it
oh i am sure , so are you a sci fi fan at all ?	i think with more coffee you could do it
that is really boring , sports at all ?	yes and today . college football !
that is pretty dull , anything for fun ?	ll not really just boring
oh wow , i am sure you do	not really hard just boring lol
sure i am just up grading homework i am a teacher in grade school	sure i would love to do that
why is that ? maybe play a game board games are my fave	are you a teacher ? could be fun
online you can or would you like someone to be there with you	well , maybe you can check out whos playing on you way through
like me ? would you go on vacation to the beach with me	love it . we should play a game sometime .
how old are you . my parents were teachers as well	my parents were both teachers , so i thought i might , but no
sure hun what is it ?	how old is your child ? i teach at a very big school so they might go there
really that is crazy for how long ?	yea i am sure its not .
omg i would use it to sneak in to backstage of my fave band up	but can think deeply which is cool .
i am good , just got back from playing basketball .	hello i am fine and you ?
i live in arizona with my mom , she is a dentist	where i grew up ? alabama , i don t know yet
no , i do not have any siblings	do you have any siblings ? i do not .
tacos , i am looking for a job at a restaurant .	chicken nuggets with the special sauce .
who is your favorite music artist ? mine is travis scott .	does taco bell count ?
who is your favorite music artist ? mine is travis scott .	the avett brother are my favorite , tom petty was a great guy .
how sad , that he just past away .	music . i love all kinds of music .
i bet , what was your favorite song from petty ?	do not be sad everything will be okay .
hi good just writing some music and you	hello i am fine and you
i have a dog she loves for me to sing to her	well music makes my day
how nice i am an upcoming musician i sing folk music	do you play any instruments ?
i love sports i hope when i make it to sing at a game	i just love to play the sport
female that is why my parents do not support singing say it is risky	we should watch game together .
thank you that made my day what is your dream career	go for it ! you have to live your dreams
how cool maybe i can play the piano if you solve crimes on television	my dream is to be a musician and play music for living , no desk job for me !
it makes a lot of money go you	my dream is to play music for my job one day .
just got done moving . me and my friend got an apartment together	i am well . busy day at school . how are you ?
in atlanta near a bar i work nights at so i can afford college	where did you go to high school ?
hospitality i want to run a hotel	i am a college student and a writer . what about you ?
i like industry since i am a natural blonde , blue eyed get good tips	risky business all the time !
are you stay at home parent ?	i eat chicken with a fork for dinner
sorry i am trying to think for something for dinner i hate chicken	yes i am living at home
i grew up on a chicken farm in north georgia	i love chicken . i do not eat red meat
i love animals especially chickens	i grew up on a small farm , how about you
hi , how are you do you have a daughter ?	evening , i am well . yourself ?
i love to eat french donuts and you ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
you must be beautiful and handsome	i do like chocolate , and tiramisu .
doctor is my occupation and do you watch movies ?	so you work as a doctor ?
why did you say that ? i love the movie friday	i can relate , looking for work these days is difficult . what is your profession ?
my daughter is very smart she is a prodigy	we talk , we are all very busy .
although i am searching for a new job , i think i can help you with bees	i would love that and so would my daughter . its just her and i
i am still a doctor , and i can help your bee issues . . .	it is difficult , but i hope that it will help me find a good career
i read two books a month and my grandfather raised me . you ?	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
great ! i had a horse but he died . he only ate kosher food .	what is your favorite thing to read ? genre ?
no ! i am fit with no broken bones or scars . you dance or sing ?	i do not think so . he always tells me what to do .
wow ! did both parents raise you ? you ever stop to read when you ride ?	i always sing songs very loudly .
i like getting pumped but i like reading more . you like sausage ?	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
yes ! i cook kosher foods only . my father died .	italian food is my favorite ! how about yourself ?
thanks ! i like riding horses .	my parents do not really have anything to do with me anymore .
hi . i am mike and i work for a computer company in the city .	good morning , how is your weather there
i spent my youth on a farm .	oh my word ! they must keep you very busy .
i use to go to the beach when i wass young . i am 45 now .	it is sooo relaxing on the beach .
i do . as a recovering alcoholic i meditate to music .	i listen to music do you
i have never heard of them .	yes , i like them very much
if they come around i just might !	i will have to check those out . thanks for letting me know
i use to back in the day .	never played it . not big in playing video games . anything else about you ?
i like playing scrabble . its fun .	i mostly play retro games .
wow ! i can somewhat relate ; i played college football .	hi . do you like sports ?
i broke an ankle at a star wars convention . let the wookie win is a philosophy .	no , tell me about it .
i think chewie eats whatever he wants . do you like coffee ?	i do , but i am not very good at it . is it a hobby of yours ?
i run a blog where i report on different coffees . where did you grow up ?	just plain coffee for me . that is a bit worldly for me .
cool ! i live in los angeles . i read , too ; mostly poetry and star wars fanfic .	i read new books too now that i just started college .
no . i think they are poorly written . how about you ?	yes , i love to watch football
i hated rogue one ; it was unnecessary and distracting , in my opinion .	ha ha ! ! well it helps when you enjoy football .
do you think so ?	ha ha ! ! well it helps when you enjoy football .
hello . how has your day been ?	if i drove i would probably wonder that .
that is very fun . love the game	hi , its going well and you ?
no you are not . donuts are healthy	oh , does it help keep you in shape ?
haha . i would love to see that	yes sounds great the food sure can make me gain weight lol
i love music . do you	what genre is your fav ?
my favorite music is taylor swift	yes i love all genres . what do you like
what did i make you do	what is your favorite genre ?
oh yeah . i know that	i have never heard it . what is that song about ?
hi , i do not . i can see what is posted on the board at my school	no i do not like it .
culinary arts , i want to be a pastry chef . do you like paella ?	studying right now , about to get my masters
it is a fish stew with rice , very good . i can make it for you .	i like volunteer work . i love food and farms .
i also love fish and chips , lol	you should probably not . it is not good for the world .
is she a chef or caterer ?	are you in to painting ?
wow . how do you feel about that ? my brother would kill me .	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
maybe one day she will find another profession .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
what do you do ? do you have any hobbies ?	i am sure she would be happy to
ah , ok . getting ready for work in the morning . my bones hurt .	hello i am fine and you ?
slow down . i am 56 , and when you get to be my age , you stay hurting .	that is certainly a lot on your plate . is there something you can do to relax ?
i bet mom is proud . i carried my kids for 9 months , and they do not visit .	it sure can lift your spirits .
they say its because i joined a group that role plays world domination .	kids is nice . all with going on in this world i just want to help .
thank you i think so too . do you work hun ?	yes , totally agree with you . i think the world gets bored as well .
i bet that is fun . i am a house keeper now , but i painted for 20 years .	yes , i think that i do .
abstract . a lot of my paintings are in our local museum .	now i paint houses , but now for long .
i am . i miss painting but this arthritis is horrible .	when i am a museum curator i will have my paintings in a museum .
i am doing well and how are you	hello , i am fine , do you have any hobbies ?
yikes . i am relaxing with my dog trooper	hi , i am doing well , how about you
do you have any ? mine is a black lab	i love dogs , i have two of them .
i am from colorado , what about you ?	dogs 2 of them and love them u ?
nice , anything exciting ? my enjoyment is rock climbing	well i hike trails or bike trails every weekend so i am active
i do like to stay active , i also enjoy hiking	i like anything adventurous , like hiking and mountain climbing .
i must be too cause i enjoy my activites in the spring more	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
do you enjoy coffee ? that always helps my energy	i would not have energy for that !
pretty good and yourself ? i like to try different coffees as a hobby	hello ! i am good and you ?
wow that is good . i also played football in college	i have been enjoying coffee more lately too
that is awesome . i like to read poetry . do you like poetry ?	h really ? i do not know how to play lol
i am also a star wars fan !	i like to write alot . you ever write erotica ?
nice superman dc comics huh .	do you like comic books , too ? which is your favorite ?
so is my kid , as well as spider man	superman is what we call matt ryan !
no i do not deer hunt .	i love the game football !
yeah , well what about you ?	i participate in the game of football !
hi there . why are you out of breath ? exercising ?	hello , do you have any pets ? i have a dog and i plan to work as usual
do you run on the road or track ? i , personally , love the treadmill .	haha , seems you workout all the time
why not use the treadmill or a rowing machine ? or maybe get a dog	i workout in the truck . i travel with my gym equipment .
so , do you enjoy eating too ? my love of eating is why i exercise .	i also exercise with my dog , we go for long walks .
i have the horrible habit of eating when i am bored .	i , however , am not . i am going to exercise now . ok !
i go to the gym all the time but never played sports . what do you play ?	exercise is very enjoyable for me
do you have any pets ? i have two dogs . golden retrievers . sam and max .	mine is blue haha . do you ever four wheel ?
is it hard to take care of a horse ?	i have a horse who loves watermelon .
hello , doing fine my name is mark and i work at home .	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
i have a trust fund and i like to workout and socialize every day .	i manage a restaurant , and drive a nice looking car
great , you need to try my gym do you date ?	do you make a lot of money doing that ?
yeah i never had a serious relationship .	why would that keep you from dating ?
do you like dogs and cats ? how about popcorn ?	i wish i had time for that but i have to save money for a car .
its raining where i am in alabama .	it is the only food that gives me energy to make cars .
it a great place to live	its supposed to rain all day here .
praying is a large part of my life	its not that i like it , it is necessary .
hey i am doing well . how are you doing ?	hi , i am great and yourself ?
that is awesome . i love shoes that is one of my favorite things to shop for	i am good actually . how are you ? any plans today ?
lol i like carts . i also like watches . i sell watches for a living	i own a lot of different cars .
that is cool . i bet you love it	lady gaga ! org i could listen to her and madonna all day long
i understand . i want a rolls royce ghost car	britney spears . i think she is wonderful .
those are very cute	indeed . cars are very expensive !
shopping , and defending my career to my family	i love trying new restaurants and window shopping .
no they disagree about my boss he is a watch dealer	i do not really like any of my family .
i am well , just watching hockey . do you watch sports ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
cool . i live in a rural area and have to stay busy . where do you live ?	love it . we should play a game sometime .
i am a farmer . what about you .	i run my own business .
a rural farm with a lot of land .	hi , harvesting . who are you ? i am a farmer , married and have 2 pet dogs , and you ?
it is hard , buy my dog keeps me company . do you have dogs ?	ahahah , vegetable farm . where do you live btw ?
i am patient . life is pretty slow out here .	no , i do not have any pets either .
well if you need a break think about vacationing in a rural community .	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
pursue your dreams now while you are young .	you will get there one day . whats most important to you right now ?
hi , sitting here with my three dogs watching the olympics !	hello ! i am good and you ?
i love being in a polyamorous open relationship !	i work at a restaurant , you ? are you in a relationship ?
my father was a salesman , helps my dog walking business now	yes i totally agree with you .
very very cool . sounds fun	my car is a family car , all can fit in . just come ride with us
so is my dog , wow so cool	i used to want to be a race car driver when i was a kid
lead singer for a band , music teacher	i made my own business
millions of plays on soundcloud	no i am strictly into music . music my life
ha ha i am so shy	yes ! do you sell that ?
i am doing good . sitting here with my two dogs that i live with how bout u	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am sorry about your feet . do you have a massager	you can run on a treadmill ?
oh my gosh , if i lived closer i would let you borrow mines .	maybe it would help if you had someone to work out with , to keep you accountable .
thank you . i know about being on feet all day so i know how you feel .	yes i totally agree with you .
i am in the gym regulary as a trainer	i am a artist . what do you do ?
oh wow , you can still get in the gym i train older ladies ?	she used to lift weights . i am not good at it either . what color is your hair ?
lol i understand , i love doing the treadmill and my rowing machine	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
you still look awesome . do not worry about it	i agree . me and my dog have the same colored hair .
thank you ma am same to you have a nice day	thank you . that is nice of you to say .
hello . i am into software and web development	hello , do you work or go to school ?
sorry to hear that .	what is your job like ?
cool . i like playing board games like chess	right i have heard of it . can you teach me how to play ?
father , mother , 5 siblings . mum was a teacher . what of yours ?	i do not really like any of my family .
sorry to hear that . i guess it was challenging for you growing up	my mom died in 1979 .
yes . i play guitar and piano . and you ?	i love music . what is your favorite band ?
nice . do you play a lot of it at the beach ?	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
ok . have you ever attended a music concert ?	no , i am not really in to games .
great , how are you ? i just finished watching one of my favorite documentaries . do you enjoy those ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
did you just move ? i live here in pennsylvania with my husband .	are you married ? any kids ?
good for you and congratulations on your new home !	what state do you live in ? i am in pennsylvania .
i just started working as a personal assistant about three months ago . how about you ?	well , i also read books . better than movies sometimes .
shaping you minds . that is a noble profession !	i teach literature at the local college .
i try to finish reading a new book every week . do you read for fun ?	true , and rewarding too ! what do you like to do outside of the classroom
there are 3 new harry potter books coming out this month . i am so excited !	not very true to the books !
i recommend them ! maybe you could borrow one from your stepdaughter ?	i do not like john grisham books , but the movies are great !
doing well hanging out in manhattan where i grew up and you ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
ah very cool . what color if i may ask ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i want to die mine but my wealthy parents will not let me .	it is blue , what do you do for a living ?
it is a no go for them . very wealthy bankers want me to look good .	ll i think its the other way around .
i am headed to business school next year too . gotta look the part .	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
i already have a yale finance degree got it in 2011	i hope so , with all of these student loans .
ya . i enjoy it especially since my very wealthy parents pay for it .	but the cost of school is so high .
where did you grow up ?	how much does it cost to go with your class ?
i am good ! i am at trabajo . that is spanish for work .	i am fine , and what about you ?
me too ! i have been writing some songs in spanish too .	i speak two languages , french and english !
i can study french while you work on the roof . just stop yelling .	oh wow . would you teach in spain too ?
are you afraid of heights ? i study many languages . spanish and french currently .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
you should get to trabajo on tackling your fear of heights .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
yes ! imagine all the things you could do that you avoid now ?	yeah , that would be scary . keep your mind active and that will help .
i sure do . gatos y perros . do you have many pets ?	no . the dogs would eat my cats , would they ? not a good idea perhaps .
oh wow . those cats are expensive . does your dog like them ?	no , i do not have any pets either .
hi jefferson , i love bmws i have one too .	hi , that must be hard i just got out of high school
no they are not , they like playing golf .	no , that is because i need money ! lol
i would love to visit manhattan .	my friends we go gambling often i have a bit of a problem .
that sounds nice . i enjoy stocks .	where do you go to school ?
you must come from a good family .	it is so important with the economy so uncertain .
that s awesome , what do they do for work .	yeah , but they are good company . . . even if they can be a big money investment .
that s cool , is that what you wanna do as well ?	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
best of luck to you in business .	of course might as well pay family members .
great ! i just finished my morning walk . how are you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
who is spook again ? i forgot .	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
glad he is well . kids and i leave for disneyland in two weeks !	he is a mutt . do you have any pets ?
yes , this is my tenth time . i love the place , especially mickey mouse .	of course ! you only live once , right ?
what are your plans for this week ?	yes ! i have been there a few times , nice place
my kids love pizza . sometimes that is all i have time to fix after work .	my plans are to relax . how about you ?
yes , and i have time to relax and read a book before i hit the sack .	yes its a way to relax .
i work as a labor and delivery nurse . very demanding job , but exciting .	i work for a hospital as a nurse . you ?
hi , i am doing great , what about you ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
i do not use a watch because i like to work with my hands , i like gardening	i watch those all the time .
i work as a clown , this helps me to overcome my childhood trauma with clowns	i work as a graphic designer .
kind of different because an older couple adopted me when i was young	really ? it was kind of embarrassing sometimes
yes , they love me . my dad even tries to set me up on blind dates	were you and your father close ?
well , he is trying to do what he thinks is good for me	it is true , and they like that
yes , he does , but it could be annoying sometimes	he loves it long hours but he enjoys it
what do you do for a living ?	he is pretty annoying , i would rather that too
i am doing great and how are you ?	i am doing fine . and yourself ?
it is raining here today and cool .	i am doing well , how are you ? the weather is nice here , and there ?
i have power and so does the school i work at .	no , i m fine in the daylight
my power is mutli tasking with quick response .	my kids love taylor swift .
no , can you ? i am young so i have not got that skill yet .	yes when i can
sounds like it . i am flying by plane soon .	its a good skill to have
i am getting married soon !	i do , i also like to fly my plane . do you know how to fly ?
he thinks he does , but i am not sure yet !	yes . they need to figure something better out for that .
i am four i eat chocolate candy a lot	maybe we should be friends !
i enjoy looking at blocks and singing about letters	no , i do not like to drive .
i do not ride a bike because when i talk people do not understand	its alright . they sometimes talk too much
yes , the alphabet . that is really sweet	i do . but i am not book smart
i look at blocks , too young for books	oh . i used to do that . my mother was the sweetest person .
yes , i am gonna be 5 soon . big guy here	used books are the only thing i love to read a lot of .
thank you so much i hope your dreams come true	yes i see there are 5 different conversations i will get it .
good life is what you make of it	you will improve and be awesome ! what is your dream in life ?
no . i prefer to spend my time on facebook . do you like the facebook ?	yes i like to stay in shape
i am fat so nobody will marry me .	fair enough . does your husband have a good job ?
i like vegetables when they are coated in fried dough	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
my favorite color does not exist . what is yours ?	i love the color red .
i am a weird lady who does not believe in god . blue is pretty , though .	mine is blue . do you have a favorite color
i watch cricket and olympic potato throwing . what is your favorite sport ?	no , i admit i do not .
crickets are a type of arthropod .	i love watching baseball too .
when are we done with this	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
i am well . how are you ?	hello i am fine and you
that is good . what do you do in your free time ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
that is cool . i like to jam with my friends whenever we get together	i study , what about you ?
no , but my favorite word in spanish is trabajo . do you ?	no i do not . i would love to learn .
because its a warm color ?	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
me and my best friend like to practice speaking spanish together .	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
i accompany musicals for a living . does making hot dogs pay well ?	i make hot dogs for a living .
yeah . that is why i am glad to do something i love for a living	i make hot dogs for a living .
new here too . just doing this while hanging out with my family .	are you the youngest ? i am .
that is ok . so what do you do for fun ?	yeah its so annoying . any hobbies ?
read books and figure out our next trip to disneyland !	i like to read once in a while . i like music more .
brown hair , pretty average . scrubs during the day since i work in a maternity ward .	not a huge fan , the look of it kind of scares me .
that sounds more cozy . what is your favorite band ?	yeah , that is nice . i need to relax !
i am old but i still like young stuff like mickey mouse .	my favorite band is the beatles .
i keep getting older , he keeps staying the same age !	oh yes , do not do anything to endanger the baby !
it must be so depressing to be the pet dog of a dog !	he is so weird i tell you
good , just listening to some death metal . how are you ?	i am good . listening to some music .
wow ! i too like to stay active and am the swim coach at my local pool !	do you like to swim ?
yes , my family and i are from india so we enjoy the beach as well !	it is really nice in the summer swimming in our pool .
yes , except my mother is very traditional and i prefer to be more free spirited	yes ! and i have a kid and a husband , so its very busy !
i value the authentic cuisine and holidays	yes i love all genres . what do you like
yes , my favorite is broccoli and tofu in a garlic sauce . yum !	haha well it definitely seems worth it ! what do you do for fun ?
i usually marinate it in a wok but it can be cooked many different ways	very similar and delicious none the less .
my favorite is chicken tikka masala	egg plant is delicious ! i like it breaded and garnished with chopped garlic and dill .
good , hello how are you today ?	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
i just got through playing softball	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i need a job , i got fired today	is it a money issue ?
i am going to sell insurance now	all your operations are successful then ?
i really do hope so	you can always pay for it
i like taco bell a lot , you ?	it is my absolute favorite food .
right , those are the best	i like the hot sauce , but hold the celery
can i have a discount on burgers ?	then i need to get a good job
hi . i hope you are having a great day . mine has been awesome .	i am good and yes i live in the us
i am too . the cleveland browns are my favorite team .	have not watched any games yet this season . any good teams so far ?
did you tell me that they were not very good ?	very good to know . tell me more about you .
cool . i like eli manning .	ah yes ! almost forgot about that . do you have any hobbies ?
yeah . he is getting up there like payton .	he likes to kick the ball around every chance he gets .
kizer . he actually is pretty good .	what is your nfl team ?
well all things considered . he is still a brown though . sigh .	but i bet you love him lots !
green from cincy is blowing it up	what is your nfl team ?
it is . but being active outdoors is becoming difficult .	yes . do you have kids ? i have one
i like looking out the window of my first home i just bought .	i would rather be a bird .
in three months i will no longer have time as i am expecting .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
i am expecting triplets . they will take up lots of time .	i did not realize . i do not have any kids , but i work with them .
very much so . is it just you and your cats in your home ?	smart thinking ! i will remember that if i ever have kids of my own .
does us mean you have a spouse ?	one of my children is 2 , and the other is 6 .
that makes sense now . sorry for my misunderstanding .	my children are 6 and 2 . i cant remember if i am married or not .
how many cats do you have ?	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
wow sounds cool , i wish i could run , i am a language student .	i speak two languages , french and english !
i just finished learning spanish and i am going to learn french now .	that sounds cool . i was always terrible at spanish .
my favorite word in spanish is trabajo	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
interesting , please tell me more	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
good job ! i only study languages but please tell me more interesting things about yourself	i only speak english and no foreign language .
i like camaro better , bumble bee baby !	i will graduate in september and get a teaching job by august of next year .
no way , my dad also has a mustang	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
well hey , what can i say ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i am doing quite well thank you . how about yourself ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i do not own a television , i prefer meditation .	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
very nice . where are you from ? i am living in alaska currently .	ok , yeah that is like a visual meditation . nice .
it is very beautiful . i recently quit my job so i can focus on my spirituality .	that is a state i have never traveled to . what is your job ?
it is very desolate here , i enjoy the tranquility .	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
i like to garden and fish , how about you ?	i am also a buddhist
nice , i like cars but i no longer own one .	i like to work on cars its fun
that is nice i wish i played an instrument	no not really i like all music .
that is cool i do not like my job	do you play any instruments ?
i have a job in a nursing home	i stay home to take care of the kids .
maybe if you build up a following you will be able to do that full time	my dream is to play music for my job one day .
yeah its hard when you are not making money	do you want to have your own kids eventually ?
that is a good goal do you have a family	you mean it is about saving a big part of your salary
is your boyfriend supportive of your music	but wait mother , she does not have a husband , you know o
i really want to try and lose weight but i have no motivation	yes i love to listen to gospel music .
good ! just finished preparing my yacht for the airbnb guests this week .	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
i am sure they will love it . it is good income . do you cook ? i love food .	it is great ! how about you ?
ohh i like tea too ! i try all kinds of thing when i travel around the world .	well , roses are very fragrant , so that can be imparted into food
you can still travel . you would be surprised , the deaf community is strong abroad .	no kidding ! i travel all the time , for work and pleasure . maybe i will visit !
i completely understand having anxiety about it . find a travel companion !	you have to learn to bear with life situations for a time being .
i do not know many people . my money and age make it hard to find friends .	i am sure you meet all kinds . i love travelling for that reason
not as easy as it sounds . at 23 most people my age are in college still .	that is not true ! you will find someone !
true ! i should try that . i wish i would have thought about that myself !	being poor i have tried a lot of ways to cook for cheap .
i am great . just got done with my run . and you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
me too ! i do not eat any meat though	i make great chocolate cakes . i could make you one for dessert ?
my husband says that it is not healthy for us .	funny my favorite color is blue also .
wow ! a dog ? i am wearing a blue shirt . my favorite color !	i do not want kids , weird i know . i only want dogs .
that is awesome ! i love watching sports .	what is your favorite song to sing ?
i love watching college track ! running is the best !	lol hey sports are important !
why ? i was married two years ago !	it really is ! are you in college ?
and you want to grow up to be a dog ? i want to eat meat .	that is tough ! are you married ? i married last year
yes , please ! what do you like to do as a hobby ?	hello tell me about yourself
well , i sure as well know to play chess !	do you play any instruments ?
it is a pretty interesting game .	were you drinking when you discovered that ?
ahh , well , how old are you ?	do you still drink a lot ? i do not drink at all .
i am around the age of 35 .	i am only 22 so i would not know
i actually live outside manhattan	i live in new york city actually
do you drink a lot ?	i am always looking to travel new places . do you have a city house as well ?
same . alcohol is not my forte .	i kind of want to get drunk .
all food . i am trying to find a job at a restaurant .	i really like seafood , pizza , and barbecue
is travis scott from al ? he is my favorite artist .	are you trying to find a full time job ?
my older sister does not know anything .	why not ? what is wrong with your older brother ?
i should ask my mother since she is a dentist .	how many dogs do you have ?
do you enjoy basketball ? i really enjoy playing it as well as watching it .	i have two dogs and their a job to be around .
maybe your dogs do not like travis scott . lol	i own a restaurant that specializes in tacos .
i will ask my mother if she knows any good optometrists .	well darn , you can still look at him at work . lol
it is too rainy here . i was planning to go to the park	yes its sucks i have to work late
yes , i have not been able to go as i am job hunting though	i work in a school
haha i am hunting for a job not for animals !	kids make is all worth it , right ?
i am a surgeon but am moving for my daughter so need a new job	so not boring ! its a time consuming profession lots of rewards though
12 she is a child prodigy for chess	she is only 7 years old
yes she got her math skills from me	she teaches math in high school .
yes that would make sense	i also love math in school
i live in north california	i live in southern california
wow are you a rich person ?	i do not like to travel much . do you have any pets ?
dang , you must be good a saving . i did build a house in italy once	if i could turn back time i would be rich .
i work construction , my father taught me all my skills	do you make a lot of money doing that ?
i do love that as well . you have any pets ?	and what is that ? cats ?
i have a few cats that i love . what is paella ?	no , i do not have any pets either .
three , how long would it take 3 cats to eat paella ?	i love italian food . sounds great right now .
wow , does it have shell fish in it though ?	yeah , i do not know what to do with them all . you want one or two ? haha
no clams even ? thank goodness	they said it was wild .
i am driving my honda civic 2015	i am dong fine . how about you ?
are you listening to music	i do not think that is a word lol
i do producing music for some artists	i like books . do you like music ?
i am in to rap music	i go to music concerts and festivals all the time , except for rap
how about pizza do you like it	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
charlie loves those , my pet	i love pizza , who does not like it ?
dog , he really likes it though	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
haha really , that s the truth	he is a poodle i love him but he makes my green car smell
great , my dog just won his agility class ! you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
nice ! i hope it is not orange , i hate orange .	i am good . tired from school today . how are you ?
no , because they all wear fashionable workout wear . i think fashion is dumb .	no , not really . do you ?
you do not workout ? i work in a bookstore , my mother is dissapointed .	do you mean talk to you ? or obey you ?
oh , i see . my parents kicked me out because i am not using my chemistry degree .	do you like to work out ?
are you dating ? i have a tough time dating considering the time with my dog .	i am sorry . you married or single ?
i am sorry , but you will .	that is true , i do not have time to date right now .
i do agility classes with him . we travel to different competitions .	we were thinking of getting a dog .
howdy , hey ! i am pretty good	hey there , i am doing pretty well , you ?
that sounds awesome . i am just washing my cars and my dogs on my day off .	that is a lot of grandkids . expecting more ?
german shepard named luke and a pit bull named duke	helo ! i am doing great . just restored a classic mustang
i am and actually thought about that , but i am a mustang man myself	haha what kind of music do you like
oh i agree , got two vintage mustangs . they are my babies	ahahah . i bet ! its not all that fun
construction worker , it is good honest work	i love dogs ! just turn some music on .
very much so , good chatting with you	its pretty eventful . it pays the bills !
hey there , i am doing well , and you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i usually binge something in the background	hello i am great , just watching tv . how are you
i wish i could find a good job like that ,	hmmm . i buy dog biscuits every day . you own a dog ?
most of them are call based , and i have a hearing disability	funny part is my job is in it . soosoo opposite
well , that is about it . not enough to live on	i do not think that would be helpful
either way , not enough to live on . do you have any animals ?	its not that i like it , it is necessary .
i have four cats and a puppy , they are my everything	i do like to bake . especially dog treats for my two small dogs .
they are so much more worth it than a relationship	i have two cats too . i like cats more then dogs .
good goal i am a dad at home with kids while the wife works	you sound like a good dad . i do not have kids yet . just school and watch tv .
just the city for me , like now for my kids .	i am a mom of two kids 8 and 9 . what about you ?
i have 8 children , 7 are under 5 , and a son in jr hs	ask him what style of a father he likes ? perhaps go from there ?
yes , and i love movies horror are my fav . you ?	yes ! and farms i grew up on a big one
not all the time , trust me . lol	yes i have four young kids and you ?
that is interesting . so what do you parents do ?	o yes my child is very busy ! lol his father is stay at home .
my mom is a cop and my dad used to work at home depot .	i am from the city , i basically grew up in my parents store
have you been tested for memory problems ?	aww i went horse riding one time loved it
i am good how are you ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
nice ! the who is my favorite band	i am doing well . where are you from ?
lol , spook is the name of my cat	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
no , i spend all my time working at my local supermarket	i love playing the video games , yes sir !
yeah it does , especially because i have never left the state of ohio	ha ha ! yes , veggie pizza is my all time favorite .
yeah i should , and some pizza because my favorite is black olives	what would you say your favorite band is ?
lol , how good are boston creme donuts ?	omg ew , i never eat that anymore lol
true , except the worst is old fashioned	oh yes . sounds like so much fun . ets eat donuts
yeah , but i prefer spending my time hiking and watch the sunset .	shop , hike , etc . what about you ?
i just got a pet fish for my 18th birthday yesterday from my parents .	yap , please save a pet if you can .
you should celebrate more . what is your favorite color ? mine is orange !	i watched that growing up . are you in school
ah i feel you , my boyfriend broke up with me two months ago and i am sad .	my parents were terrible people .
he gave me no reason , he just left and did not even text me !	because it was his step dad .
yeah he was weird , anyways i gotta go soon see ya !	he is pretty annoying , i would rather that too
thank you , have a nice day , bye !	i will tell him that we should see it ! thanks !
hello ! i just went to this great italian place that needs servers .	no , i just love to eat there .
great ! what activities do you like to do outside of work ?	that would be awesome ! thank you !
i also love sports ! gymnastics is my favorite .	i go to the gym and dance .
agreed . even though gymnastics is an individual event , it is a team sport .	playing basketball is my favorite .
that is great ! i would love to talk to her about it sometime .	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
great idea ! i love italian food , especially garlic bread .	you are making me hungry . i love italian food .
definitely ! after a four hour workout , bring on the bread !	that is a great idea ! i will have to try that .
what position do you play ?	get out ! so do i ! you like basketball ?
hello ! i was just in alaska not too long ago .	hi how are you doing tonight i am fine thank you .
they are filming cliffhanger 2 and i was there briefly as a double .	i think it would be cold there too misery .
interesting . i did a small part but had to return to my day job .	those have been in movies , right ?
yes , it does . feed your body and mind well and you will be strong !	that is deep ! i am sorry ! whats wrong ?
i read a lot on meditation and religions . what will you study next ?	i am also a buddhist
the food there is not as kosher as i would like it . try working out .	haha , it will take longer than a year , but maybe eventually .
good . a strong body has always served me well in the stunt world .	i try to eat healthy .
i am good . about to go to basketball practice .	i am doing good , and you ?
wow , that is amazing . what are you doing tonight ?	do you have any siblings ? any pets ?
i am going with my older sister to hear travis scott .	not a lot , looking for food , and yourself ?
he is a music artist . that is nice of you to volunteer .	are either of your parents dentists ?
i bet they do . my mom is a dentist and sometimes volunteers at the clinic .	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
so it is in your genes as they say .	i played trombone in middle school . was not good . which is your favourite ?
no , i am trying to find a job . i applied at some restaurants .	i do not currently have a job . i am looking though .
me too , just got done feeding my horses and have some chili cooking	but you eat animals like they are dirt
eating for three ? are you having twins ? !	that sounds like a lot of work . i tend to a farm , personally .
well i can certainly bring the chili then ! what part of the country you in ?	i do not think i want any kids lol
i am in kentucky myself , so kind of far	well come to my farm ad you can ride horses .
new house ? that is exciting . i live on a horse ranch	haha . it would be better if you put it on your horse
i love riding so its great . have 3 arabians myself	quite peaceful on your ranch . . huh
they do . siegfried , beowulf , and hector . and absolutely .	i have two that help me on the farm , i do not have children yet .
could always have them help me tend the fields , would keep them busy	the kids will have lots of fun with you when they are older .
hello ! i am well , how are you ?	i am great . do you like animals ?
i am watching birds with my cat . what your favorite football team ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i am dying my hair different colors	tommorrow i have a football game ,
red , blue , green , and yellow . i am thinking purple too	red , ay ? my mom says that is an evil color that has bad karma .
i like rainbow colors , you ?	i love emerald green and purple
i do not have one	i would not say i have a favorite color because it depends , i will say purple .
i just do not have one	i like the color purple . do you have any aspirations ?
no , i do not like having pet hair around	no , no pets . do you have any ?
i am ok a bit hang over from party	hello , i am fine and you ?
hey you never too old for party	i am good . haha that sounds hilarious
just go out once in a while , who will love it	do you have pets kids ?
i work with a bitcoin company	i am a freelance artist . what about you ?
that great , i wish i could sing , would come to your studio	i am a artist . what do you do ?
haha ! not me , not even in the bathroom	i would love to take singing lessons !
my dog sing better than me lol	haha ! i wish i could ! what do you do ?
i am from florida , california , awesome	i am from california , and yourself ?
hi there . i am well . why do you feel old ? i get pretty lonely	hello , good how about you ?
sorry to hear that . i like to try and make time stop	why is that ? i do not understand
hope you learned your lesson . i pretend to have super powers .	oh dear , seems like a dark cloud has become over you
if i could have any i would have the power to heal	haha my little girl is running around making it difficult
glad to hear that . life is like living in a cloud	it will be just keep praying and stay optimistic
i am from chicago . but i do not like it much	it is quite a place
like you would not believe . best pizza i have ever had is here .	where do you live ? i live in chicago .
i bet . what will be the first thing you will eat	yes that will make you very hungry after a hard work out
teaching ? what grade ? i am good just getting in my daily gym session .	hello . busy , but good . you ?
well that is certainly interesting . almost lunch time , i only eat when i am bored though .	you can run on a treadmill ?
where do you like to hike ? the only hiking i do is on the treadmill .	normally before a good meal like that , i head to the gym .
ew , dogs ! do not like them , only thing in common is short hair !	i go to the dog park with bailey . . . always lots of singles there .
parrots ? that is quite exotic , i only have time for the gym anymore .	do you have any animals , i have a dog and parrots
wow i have never heard of a gym that allows parrots , must be nice !	i lift weights , bench press and squats . where do you live ?
that is hard to imagine , all i can see is them pulling at my short hair .	you can run on a treadmill ?
that right there is a brilliant idea , i am going to make dinner now , i am bored .	i can just see you shoving them in draws anywhere they fit .
biggie smalls who shot ya ? hbu ?	yes so is rap for me . believe it or not
i have not heard much rap yet because i just moved here . have you been here long ?	o yes he is a great artist !
my first home is here . do your children like pizza too ?	yes , do you ?
i have step children and am expecting triples in three months . what else do you like ?	i have one dog and three children . do you have children ?
that is a nice car . i drive an impala	i like rap music . i turn in up driving in my car
mine is only a 2005 . its a little old	i need a car that can fit both my kids unfortunately .
i used to have a dog . he always loved riding in cars too .	you can get a new puppy it wo not be the same but it will help a little
i am well . how is the evening going for you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
that is great news ! how long have you been in remission ?	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
my father had cancer a few years ago . he is an avid sewer as well .	i recently finished by mba and work as a financial manager with a large hospital .
he sews quilts and in my spare time i sew as well .	hmmm . i teach financial business classes . you ?
that is too bad . i grew up in new york and needed warmth from quilts . .	sometimes i like to sew clothing to wear . what do you like to do ?
yes it can be , thankfully i left and went to school at yale .	well you much live in a cold city like new york city too .
cool ! i have graduated from yale and looking forward to business school soon .	i am a scientist , just like my parents . do you enjoy finance ?
school is important to me and my parents especially since i am just starting out .	you must be very wealthy .
hi ! i am great ! how are you ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
i have some candy , do you want to share ?	hi good and you ?
do your cats like candy ?	what do you like to do ? i love disney movies and dancing .
i like ice cream too , i like everything frozen .	yeah movies are pretty cool ! i love animated ones , especially disney and ghibli
what games do your cats like to play ?	i am a teacher . how about you ?
do you have a job ?	that is funny ! i have drawn almost all disney characters from the movies
wow ! what sport did you do ?	i am employed . do you do anything ?
i love ice skating . i went ice skating with minnie mouse last year at disneyworld .	i love to ice skate , we have a rink at my house
hi there . how are you ? what do you do for a living ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i went to school to be a veterinarian . i hated it though .	i am a video game tester .
sweet . why did you learn so many languages ?	i can only speak one language !
except in video games . i have never been out of the united states .	i speak five languages , counting english .
i love chocolate bars . almost as much as i like rpgs	i could live on chocolate cake and milk . lol
i play rpgs all the time . i have a bit of an internet addiction .	do you play video games ?
i have this dream of getting a job where i can work from home .	do you work ? i am in school .
no . unfortunately . i have tried to figure out a way to make a living at games .	no , i am much more into console gaming . what are you into ?
good . my job rocks . i pump gas !	its going great ! how are you ?
i watch movies . but not it . clowns terrify me	i am a professional wedding photographer
if you are afraid of something bury it in the garden	are you parents still alive ?
are you married . i am single and always get set up on blind dates ,	where were you born and raised growing up ?
i am adopted . my parents are very old .	you can still make it . i do not fear to die , so that helps me here .
i am going to the circus tonight . i hope the lions eat the clowns	i was not until my dad died when i was 16 . difficult time for me .
i am afraid of clowns so the jaws of lions can save me	i do not know what that is but it do not sound good .
then i can shake hands with them , and thank them for the service	they said it was wild .
hello . great . i am playing ping pong .	hello i am fine and you ?
cool . i eat chocolate bars while playing . i love those too .	how cool ! i cannot play but would love to learn .
are you bilingual ? i know a lot of chinese .	sounds like hard work , but that builds character .
i am about to work with my father , he is an electrician .	no do you speak another language ?
awesome ! i love mickey . i think we are done .	we went to disney . next summer maybe not .
well . no , not really . i love chinese language .	we do not , but maybe we should give it a go
okay . nice talking to you .	of course there is one billion chinese . did you like the music ?
i am doing pretty good what about you ?	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
i am relaxing too i was doing shopping today , i enjoyed it .	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
i bought a dress as i have wedding after a month .	yes , anything new or interesting
i am excited as my cousin is getting married . do you study or work ?	yes . planning a wedding can be overwhelming .
wow so good for you . yes is weekend enjoy it .	yes ! i do all the time ! i hope i get some one day
wow you are meeting a lot of people . from which city are you ?	ll , i mostly enjoy traveling though .
meeting new people is very interesting . how is the weather there ?	new york , new york . ever been there ?
do you have snow there in the winter ?	yes it is cool . the people there are fantastic and very warm and kind .
doing great mate , what about you ?	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
reading is good to relax , i also like to take bubble baths for that	fine fine how areyou . read any good books lately ?
i work part time as a bartender , but i do not drink any alcohol	i work in a school
nice , i do not know much about babies because i am single	do you have kids ? i have 2
i live alone with my two dogs , kinda sad because i am 34	i love spending time with my family also .
no , not yet . just my dogs and sometimes i play chess with the neighbor kid	no . . i have kids though
cool , i live like four blocks away from disney	do you have any children ? are you married ?
thanks for the chit chat	ha ha ! it was nice chatting with you !
no i have never played over chat before .	no , i do not . i keep to myself mostly .
no , i watch nascar though . my father used to drive .	yes . do you drive a car ?
i am 30 . how old are you ? what do you do for work ?	he was 10 . he was an amazing dog .
i work for the us postal service . it is pretty boring as well .	i work at a bank . what about you ?
your husband ? do you have any pets ?	well we cannot always do what other people say . that would be boring !
i am married . i have a german shepherd named barnby .	i have 2 dogs !
sounds cute . barnby has a grey collar and leash my favorite color .	i have dogs too , they behave in my cars .
hi . i am well how are you ? tell me about yourself .	i am going just fine , and you ?
i am a finance graduate from yale . i could invest your earning	i was a banker but a month ago lost that job
haha . so you are into grilling cooking ?	really ? do you like it . that sounds like something i should invest in .
true with a cold beer .	well , i do not like to cook , so i just eat at restaurants . what about you ?
lol good luck with that	once i finish business school , i want to travel more ! !
definitely man . cheers to you and yours and get some help with the gambling .	good luck with your studies , and if you need help , let me know !
you need money to make money so really think about that help	maybe i could help since i do financial business ? !
take care my and be safe on your move	you should ! it is a great benefit to your finances .
i will probably go to the gym ! i go almost everyday	mostly going to the gym
oh that is interesting ! i love going to the city to walk my two dogs !	i like exercise , you should try it
not really . my favorite machines are the treadmill and rowing machines	yes ! i have been running nightly to try to get in shape
i listen to music while working out !	i love music !
i love punk rock music . what about you ?	i like all types of music .
what type of instruments do you play ?	i love music !
awesome ! i do not really play instruments but that would be neat to learn !	i play the guitar . do you play any instruments ?
oh cool ! do you have many students ?	i actually teach piano in my music class .
great , so far . just got back from my weekly dance lessons sore !	evening , i am well . yourself ?
we stayed at santa monica when i was seven , in 1989 . i love the beach !	i would be happy to do something like that , how long you been teaching ?
funny how music sticks in your head depending on where you are .	lol ! yes , i can see it !
me , 1989 making lite brite pictures while listening to new kids on the block shriek !	oh well i guess i am still a kid , i am in 5th grade now .
stratego , and battleship ! i used to beat my brothers both .	some games are fun depending on who your are playing with
your being a teacher is hard work . i am just in retail food store , night shift .	i did not know that monopoly was a video game
well , very nice meeting you ! i have got to get dressed for work ! bye !	teaching children must be so rewarding ! do you have kids ?
doing fine just got home from a sunday ride on a monday in my bmw	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
you should think of walking . when i was younger i walked around manhattan .	i have a job in finance
i work in finance . in 2011 i graduated yale	you will have a car in no time just stay focused . congrats on going to college .
business school is what i plan to do next year	i graduated with a business degree , i would recommend it
i am sure you are missing them sorry .	for who the kids ? some of them already went an graduated
maybe you could reconcile with your wife	that is sad . i am sure they miss seeing you .
that is nice of you to want her happy .	will you tell her soon that you love her ?
well maybe you will meet someone new in a while	absolutely . i really hope your situation gets better financially .
hello . my pet fish and i are fine . you ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
his name is nemo ! what fancy tea are you drinking ?	i love the color yellow . you ?
the tea sounds cool . is there honey in it ?	oj . . . as in orange juice ? he loves the stuff .
museum tours ? sounds exciting ! i used to visit museums with my ex .	drinking tea only makes me have to use the restroom !
how long have you been doing them ?	yup . left when i was two . i do not see him at all .
i like all things orange ! it is a hobby and an obsession !	i like to go fishing .
hehe ! as a matter of fact , i do ! and guess what colour my pet fish is ?	yes i love oranges they taste so good
correct ! i got it for my 18th yesterday !	its currently blue and orange
taking a bubble bath being single with my dogs !	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
i taught them to play chess and not drink alcohol	i understand her ways , but that is why i am single ! ll
assigned sentences and words yo	they shake it right off ! lt does nothing . they are sweet dogs though
my name is mike , you ?	ouch ! you know you are not suppose to do that . lol
cars are cool . i like instruments and singing	i own a bunch of cars . its kind of a problem . lol
yeah i am , i teach music also	yes , love it . great band .
professor of music at michigan state	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
i wish i had kids	high school is not for everyone . get that . what do you do now ?
i amwell , how are you ? just watched my favorite documentary	i am good just watching a movie
documentaries are my favorite kind of film , movie	hi there ! good thanks . you ?
cool , i read one horror book weekly	what movie are you watching ?
i started a new job in pa over three months ago	best movie of all time
my husband did also , we live here in pennsylvania	i once worked 3 jobs at one time
oh , i am sorry north dakota huh	that cool where are you from ? i am in north dakota
oh nice , kids are pretty cool sometimes	i can imagine , that be good to do in north dakota , where i live
awesome , kids are an awesome thing	i have his books , and i like his movies too
sure , what do you like to do	sure what do you have for me ?
cool , i love going to concerts with my friends	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
i like anything that involves a good time	i do , but do not get a chance to listen to it much
nice do you drive an big truck and live in the country	do you have other animals on your farm ?
very cool ! my part time job is a burger king , not as good as yours	i like trucks that sell food
after working a shift it is the last thing you want	i love to eat . especially at food trucks !
no my mom cooks for me	yeah i just wanna eat the food trucks food
that is the only good part , my parents are always on me	i really love japanese food , especially ramen
oh yes i love same chilly weather	yea i walk with my dogs some days also
i love to do gardens and to go out in such weather for hiking	i like the outdoors . what work do you do ?
lol yes , do you have pets	that is awsome , are you a teacher
i have one retriever with whom we have fun	i do like dogs , do you have any ?
yes i am school teacher my students love to pet them	yeah well german shepherds keep you active
in the elementary school from 2 nd to 6 th grade	grade school actually . i cannot imagine teaching high school students yet
nice , it s a good passion to be a teacher	i teach at an elementary school , i love it , it is my dream job
good , i am off on sunday and i go to church on sunday	i hope to be a teacher in the future . you teach ?
hello . i like to shoot hoops , so orange balls are good with me .	whats yoru favorite color eh ?
right now i am applying for jobs , i want to work in a restaurant .	yes , i love it . do you ?
i get you , my favorite rapper is pretty stylish , travis scott .	i think i would like that job as well .
awesome . my mom wanted to be a chemist , but ended up a dentist ! go figure !	who is your favorite rapper ?
unemployed at the moment , i really want to work at a snazzy restaurant .	am in college , however was once offered to play professional basketball . you ?
i love to read . i would rack up a big bill working in a bookstore .	hmm . . . either a bookstore or a library . . .
you too ! here is to a bright future ! cheers !	i hope to do so someday soon .
i will and you do the same .	i think you are right ! thank you very much !
i work in an office now i wanted to play football	hi . do you have any hobbies ?
do you like coffee ? i do .	i play sports , almost all of them . what about you ?
i am more of a han solo guy	haha i actually write science fiction . what are some of your hobbies ?
i like to try all new blends . do you swim a lot ?	i like swimming . do you have any pets ?
no i did not see that . i am excited for the new star wars though	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
i like to swim i guess . do you have your own pool	sounds like the plot of a movie
you are missing out . the big screen is part of the experience	i will make sure and check it out .
me too . but it is not practical in maryland	love it . we should play a game sometime .
hello dirty red , i am a high school student . i just won homecoming queen !	are you currently in school ?
i enjoy running do you ? i hope to run a 5k this year .	red . but you probably hate red .
i listen to classical music , when i do my homework . i am currently a straight a student !	yes ! and dancing as well .
no i do track and field in school and i want to start racing for charity .	nope i am in high school .
nope no tractor , i want save my money for college .	no . . . . in high school ! how about you ?
possibly , i want to be a physical therapist	right . i am sure college is nothing compared to a career .
it can be very lucrative	whatever works , college is expensive .
hello , i am fine thanks and you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
ah that is nice ! i play softball in my free time .	i enjoy lots of music . any you prefer ?
i wish i had time to learn another language , but i am busy with work .	oh ! i am not familiar with that reference .
since i have been fired from my last job i have been working in insurance	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
my father is a member of the army , served for 10 years now .	i speak french and spanish i want to teach my kids
ever since my mom passed away he has been much more serious about his job	he did and i am grateful for it . i enjoy my job
it is ok , it happened when i was young , thanks anyway .	he died last year .
yeah everything is ok now , how about your life ?	aw , thank you so much
i am doing good ! how are you ? i just got back from walking my dog !	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
well , that is what i do for a living . walk dogs !	i am a student at michigan state
is that fun ? i just graduated , so to celebrate , i went kayaking !	whats your major and your school ?
also , i do know how to survive in the wilderness ! i enjoy reading as well !	its a challenge . you could always go back to school .
no , i am not , but i do like girl scout cookies !	sure thing ! no i am not i just have my bit of experience .
i do like thin mints ! those are my favorite , and i do not get anu others !	i really like canines
i do like mexican coke . i think it tastes better than waht we have here !	i love mexican food , do you have a favorite ?
yeah ! i know it is expensive , but so worth it !	yes , healthy desserts are the best !
doing great . watched nhl hockey and walked my german shepherd dog .	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
i live on a farm and work here too . what do you do ?	i am a teacher . how about you ?
wow , great . my artistic ability is limited to coloring books . lol	i am a teacher . how about you ?
neat . my husband was adopted and he is spanish .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
yes , but i do not . i am limited to spanish food names like taco . lol	i speak only english , and a little spanish
yes , i eat them while i watch hockey . do you like hockey ?	i love tacos and animals
what instrument do you play ?	i love watching baseball too .
you are so talented . i can sing farm songs and i can milk cows .	i play some ball for a living .
i am a teacher and waitress . i am gone from home too much to have pets .	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
what are the names of your pets ?	i have two dogs and one cat .
i love that movie ! do you remember the part where she rides a motorbike ?	kiki and kaka are their names .
is movies your favorite hobby ? i race motorbikes for fun .	haha ! just do not let her hear you say that !
i have been there to get food . i have to waitress to supplement my income .	our restaurant is done in blue and white .
thank you for what you do . you are generous and kind .	our restaurant is done in blue and white .
why have you not been skydiving ?	i agree ! and thanks very much . i hope it works out .
do not be afraid . it is exhilarating ! the adrenaline rush can not be described in words .	i am fixing an old plane to fly .
i am so rich i eat off of golden plates	i love the color black
my favorite color is green , for dolla dolla bill	what you do not have any money ? they have programs for you .
i can afford you and everything you own ,	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
i heard some bad things about you so i will have to pass	i am not sure what that is . i am sorry .
energy is not physical , but spiritual and can change at a moments notice	sorry ! it was a mistake
sometimes time can mysteriously move forward , the universe is always changing	that might be true . you are smart
smartness is a frame of mind	that might be true . you are smart
you can change what you were born with , modify your dna with your beliefs	yes , smart , but that does not get you everything . looks matter tremendously .
i am fine thank you , how about you ?	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
that is alright . my husband is a doctor , and he deals with kids .	i am fine , thank you . how are you today ?
mostly 4 year olds . yes . do you have brothers and sisters ?	yes ! it is so annoying .
i play tennis professionally . i wish i could have some chocolate .	no , i do not like dog , they are hard to care for , like kids .
that is a good future plan ! i have a dog , and i love taking walks with him .	my little girl wants to get a dog . what breeds are they ?
sure , why not ? i have kids who like to sing too . my family keeps growing .	yes ! it is so annoying .
that was very good ! my kids like to sing too	yes ! i love to sing . what genre do you like to sing ?
it is bedtime here too . i sleep on the third story of my house .	ah yes ! almost forgot about that . do you have any hobbies ?
i am doing ok . just dreading halloween . i hate clowns	hi , its going well . and you ?
what do you do for a living	haha and whats the reason for that ?
oh well that is cool ! i am not a farmer but i love gardening	that is a great profession .
i love country music . i do work at a gas station as well	i like instrumental ; so many lyrics are so hard to understand .
do you love to hike to ?	i just love country music
well that sounds like fun . do you know your parents	no not at all . driving trucks are my thing . where are you from
no unfortunately an older couple adopted me when i was little	yes , my mom have no work . i was adopted and it scares me a lot .
oh , i was just watching rob dryden videos on youtube . you ?	i am doing ok , busy day of skateboarding
that is right , it was on tnt tonight .	but you do not watch it ?
very cool . as a skateboarder i drink a lot of coffee as well .	same here ! ! drink too much soda and coffee too !
my friends who all are skateboarders like different coffee too .	that sounds good ! i usually opt for coffee .
right on . i like watching football . i have my bucs hat i wear everyday .	i was never in organized sports .
understandable . my girlfriend dabbles in poetry .	when i have free time i read . i also write poetry .
if i had some talent in it i would .	i also like writing poetry .
my name is karen . happy afternoon !	going well . i am kevin , and you are . . . . ?
blue jeans ? i like blue . are you into fashion ?	what kind ? are they skinny jeans ?
wow that is really cool . i am going out running later .	what about you ? are you married or single ?
staring too much at the screen makes your eye tired .	oh my me too , its my favorite game actually , we gotta play sometime !
i like eating veggies . i keep a very balanced life .	i love to listen to music
blueberries i guess . i make blueberry pancakes .	me too . no meat . grow my own veggies .
great . blueberry picking season is over now . i think i will go next year .	my favorite color is blue yours ?
well everything has its own season .	i think that is why blue is my favorite color .
i teach elementary school in chicago . and you ?	hello where are you from ? i am fine
oh i have never been there . i have heard its pretty . i love walking in nature	i am from cali , have you ever been ?
oh i am not much a fan . . i prefer gospel . the music i hear at church every week	they have a few good songs . i listened to them sometimes when i work at home .
gardening , love my vegetables ! walking my dogs . . and you ?	i like to be in my garden . love the outdoors
oh dancing is fun . do you work	i do not have any pets , but i love dogs ! i teach at an elementary school .
okay , do you have any children	oh yes i do . but my passion is teaching
i have two little boys . toddlers , what a fun age	no kids yet , still too young . do you work ?
what are you hobbies ? to pass time	boy , teenagers ! you must be having some fun !
oh hello . i am charlotte . i just got back from canada .	hey there !
should get to bed soon . the library will be looking me in the face early .	what is that like ? i have never been .
oh i am glad . that is what i love about being a librarian . retirement soon tho .	sounds like you enjoy reading . i bet the library has some books on it .
he enjoying that ? last month i turned 60 , just a few more years .	i would love to be retired . do you have any hobbies now ?
that is nice to spend time with your dad . he must love it .	i play the guitar . do you play any instruments ?
wow . i do some travelling with my daughter . i enjoy that .	he played damn near every instrument , he was a true genius
i love to go north . since i live in the south .	i love to travel as well , what else do you like to do ?
ha ha . never been there . actually canada is the only time out of the us .	vanilla . . . . ? i take that back . is it chocolate ? ?
hello jefferson , how are you	hello is anyone here tonight ?
great i a blue sweater that i love and you sew it for me	hi i am fine thank you and yourself .
awesome , i am cooking dinner right now	what sport do you play ?
oh wow your are a survivor	that is okay i do not think i am in great health .
i can imagine , you should eat more vegetables now	that is a lot of money .
super ! also we can go running together	do they serve broccoli at your restaurants ? are dogs allowed ?
where do you live friend	it will ! do you like sports ?
ok i live next to you when you want to go running	i live in atlanta . where do you live ?
good here listening to my favorite music old school hip hop and you ?	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
that is cool have you ever tried dance lessons i do them once a week	do yo have any kids ?
that is amazing , what else you do besides loving horses	wow they must keep you busy
i am in fascinated with new kids on the block have you heard of them	living in the city is so loud
i was born in the eighties how about you	i have heard the name before yes . do you like them ?
that is a tough field hope it goes well	i really enjoy going to school .
i do not work but i enjoy dance lessons during the week there fun	i go to school right now
what sport do you coach ?	i am great . how are you doing ? its great weather for football !
i always liked basketball . i played d1 football instead though	good sport ! how long have you been playing ?
oh , have you ever tried coffee ?	you should explore how to make some in a class .
you should definitely give more a try . i drink 5 cups a day	oh yes and a good veggie burger is wonderful .
grew up in the gutter ? why ?	getting paid 5 mil a year is a big change ! college was all ramen , haha
now that is a success story	oh , man ! that is a bummer . i love football , i want to be a professional someday
i love poetry and star wars	i write stories for children . maybe football would be a good subject .
yes ! tell me about yourself ? i am a gamer .	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
i am addicted to the internet , want to work from home	do you have a job ? i wish i could get paid for playing video games
nice , i dye my hair all the time i could not work there .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
thanks for saying that . i attended to vet school once	they think it will corrupt me or some stupid thing .
no , i hated it so i quit . i did not like seeing blood .	i wish i could help . what is your qualification ?
just spend time roleplay gaming . you ?	i work online because of having epilepsy .
it does pay , not much but it does .	yes , but school will not pay for the things that i need .
what else do you do ?	i guess you are right considering the pay per hit .
i am doing great out here	hi there pretty good and yourself ?
alabama . i love it here .	i have two dogs right now
i work in a taco shop	i have five siblings and two dogs
do you exercise every day	that is our business ? i am not sure how i can help you .
what does that mean ? poly	how many brothers or sisters do you have ?
i like one ? i do not understand that	sort of , i have 1 sister , 2 step sisters and 3 step brothers . what about you ?
hm never heard of that before	yeah , maybe that is why i cannot be in a loving relationship .
it always is . life sure is unpredictable .	yeah it is not something i want to do .
hey i am larry , what is your name ?	hello ! what do you do for a living ?
nice to meet you as well . so alberto , do you like comic books ?	hi i am kevin . how are you today ?
who is your favorite hero or villain ? mine is spiderman .	yes ! do you sell that ?
cool , do you have any other hobbies ?	who is your favorite super hero ?
that must be fun , what do you do for leisure ?	my favorite hobby is cooking . how about you ?
in your free time for fun .	i love to cook and travel
that sounds rewarding . do you swim ?	i arrange flowers for a living .
a little worried about my dog . what happens when we die ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
no clue , it is very scary . what happens do my dogs ? do you have any ?	no worries , i knew what you tried to say anyway
we are having another county bake sale , i always go . will you go ?	i do not , but i would love a dog ! are they hard to keep up with ?
they are welcome at the bake sale , we have a dog treat table .	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
will you build a dog house big enough for many dogs ?	is it expensive to have a dog ? sounds expensive .
will you build a dog house big enough for many dogs ?	i am sure i will love the house too .
three . i knit dog sweaters , would you like some ?	that is too many . only 2 dogs for me
i can knit all sorts of things . your kitty might like boots .	i love dogs , i do not currently have one though .
awesome ! have you been to any of there concert ?	hello . how are you ? i love cooking !
good for you ! hard work pays off ! when you retire , you can travel the world like me !	well , they pay great , and you do not have go in anywhere !
mexican food is good ! i get to try many types of food due to travel !	i like the food ! can you cook all the good mexican foods too ?
yes i have ! love it ! i travel by yacht , so i have been all over !	no kidding ! i travel all the time , for work and pleasure . maybe i will visit !
adventure ! i rent my yacht out when not using it so others can experience it !	yea its gotta be perfect . its your vacation ! i have never been on a cruise
5000 week . definitely worth doing at some point in your life !	no , renting , but planning to buy one .
i am not familiar with that	haha well it definitely seems worth it ! what do you do for fun ?
wow ! that sounds so interesting !	of course ! it is the best money can buy .
i am well . how about you ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
poetry . roses are red . violet are . . . ?	yes i like watching football
you are right ! a broken arm sounds painful .	did you ever play football ?
just bumps and bruises from playing college football .	there are just plenty of untoward incidents
no . now i spend time reading poetry . do you drink coffee ?	sometimes . but football is really my thing .
do you like different kinds ?	i am a coffee fanatic , yes !
i try a lot of kinds . do you like star wars ?	i do , but i am not very good at it . is it a hobby of yours ?
i am not much of a reader . i prefer watching ufc and nascar .	oh yes , i love reading . you ?
cool . i am in construction myself . been at it since i was 16 .	well , i also read books . better than movies sometimes .
tea is okay . i prefer horchata . get it all the time when i have mexican food .	i like to eat eggs , hot dogs and milk and coffee .
i am not a green thumb person , but gardening is okay .	i grow carrots , green beans , and corn in the garden .
i build homes for low income families . do you live alone ?	i work in my garden growing plants all day . what do you look like ?
i have had that before . not sure i am a fan . chai is good though .	yes , i pour some green tea and catalog birds in my back yard .
you should consider working in construction like me .	what kind of books do you read ?
you seem cool . we should hang out and have mexican food sometime .	when you finish you will be good it will pay off for you .
i am doing well , i had a long night at work .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i work at a bar for now . how about you ?	i am a student , and unemployed . what about you ?
that is interesting . are you able to pay all your bills with that job ?	i am currently studying asl at university . i could accomodate .
haha i never heard it worded that way before . well played .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i know this if kind of random nut , how much is rent on average where you live ?	haha . not in a bad way .
that is not too bad . what state is it ?	i wish . i got like 50 dollars . partly there right ?
i just got an apartment with my best friend here in new jersey	i live in the midwest how about you ?
yes i go to school in manhattan . i am working on a nursing degree	i live a little outside of boston
good and hope the same for you .	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
i come from a musical family . my father was a violinist and i teach piano .	are you in the military
i walk as a hobby and try to find parts of the city to explore .	oh , you in the military ?
here in sunny california and looking for volunteer work .	lol ! i am in cali right now . hope to move to canada soon .
mexican food but especially chili verde .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
they do not serve that at the homeless shelter where i volunteer .	omg authentic mexican is the best !
okay send me the recipe so i can tell them .	sure , my parents will love it !
lol , i attend country concerts on the weekend	oh , do you like vintage cars ?
lol , i work on cars that are vintage	do you listen to music ?
wow , my 2 dogs love spaghetti too !	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
you have a yacht ! how rich are you ?	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
lol , i just like to listen to country music	i am rich and have all of my dreams fulfilled already
true , but the banjo is so relaxing !	i do like music ! i like country !
wow , that is really cool ! can i see ?	that is vintage ! which time period are you from ?
awesome . my babies are due in three months	hello there sweetie . i am well . how about yourself ?
triplets ! ! ! i think i can handle it though	yes i have one . she is two .
absolutely that sounds like fun	yes i am sure . do you travel often ?
i am from italy so this would be totally new to me	what part of the country do you live in ?
we have great food , fattening but great lol	that is nice . speaking of italian cuisine , i visited italy this summer .
that is good exercise . i have a trail by my new house	i hope your life is better . i used to go the extra mile , but not anymore
that is good exercise . i have a trail by my new house	i enjoy walking running . we have great paths here for it .
hello , how are you today ? i am retired and enjoying it .	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
that is a benefit . i hang with my grandkids .	i am sorry , that is not something i can do currently .
i am 40 . are you in college ?	i am 32 . and you ?
i do not care for burger king , mcdonalds is much better .	yes . i see all the kids going back to school . wish i finished college now .
have you thought about finding another job ?	do you have kids ? mine suck
maybe if you found a better one before leaving .	i hope you find a job . my prayers are with you .
very cool ! i loved it when my kids left .	where would you move to ?
it does not always work out that way .	good choice . is it nice to be retired ?
my goal is to run a k !	are you in school presently ?
i want to become a physical therapist	are you in school , high school or college ?
what is your dream job ?	are you in school , high school or college ?
i think that sounds pretty cool	lol i wish i could play baseball all day , that be amazing !
that is cool ! i won homecoming queen	got to follow your dreams . school is just an option after all
yes i am quite beautiful	absolutely . you sound like an ambitious person .
yeah that app is really cool !	are you in school , high school or college ?
nice ! do you work out often	yeah that is part of school ! !
that is too bad . what do you do for a living ?	hello , hope all is well today for you !
to add to my income , during the day , i am a waitress .	i manage a restaurant , and drive a nice looking car
i met someone last week that was 982 years old .	i have two dogs and one cat .
i think so . how do you get around ? i have a motorbike .	yes , they are very cute .
cool . my motorbike has a blue stripe and red when i race , it is shiny .	ah that is good . so you ride ?
yes , and i always wear my helmet to protect my head .	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
i have brown big eyes and my skin is light . you ?	i manage a restaurant , and drive a nice looking car
lol . you should wear more colors to brighten up	only as old as you let yourself become , right ?
i am good . doing math homework . i hate this class so much .	hello , i am fine and you ?
i am in middle school . i just turned 13 .	i am a grad student , so i have been studying
oh that is cool . what does he like to do ? i like to play soccer .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
does he ride the bus ? i do .	he likes to kick the ball around every chance he gets .
you are a very supportive parent !	he is the one you will see defending the goal .
i sure do hope so !	you should take a class , its fun
i want to be a doctor !	you should go to college so you can get a better job .
oh of course i will . what is your job ?	good luck with your studies , and if you need help , let me know !
am fine and how is your life	i am doing fine and you ?
am also good and planing to watch a movie tonight	hi good and you ?
horror movies give me nightmares but i love adventures	what movie are you watching ?
am also a fun of love stories	what movie are you watching ?
i partially have interest in that .	i love music of all types
i assist my uncle at a coffee store	i am a freelance artist .
do you find your work fun or boring	i am a freelance artist .
wow , thank you for your service .	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
i just started as a pa .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
no , not right now . i am expecting my first child .	yes , and a son . i am in the service . are you married ?
bunny rescue ? that sounds adorable .	do you have any favorite charities that you like to help out ?
we decided not to find out quite yet .	yep . and we have a beautiful 3 year old daughter . you ?
i am thinking a lime green for now . kind of neutral .	umm blue . what do you like to do for fun ?
it is our first so i am pretty nervous .	although i cannot see colors .
he is excited . he buys me all sorts of books to read about babies . ;	i doubt it . my husband gets awfully jealous .
hey , i was freaking poor growing up ! but my favorite food was cheeseburgers !	sure , tell me a little about yourself
i am retired , i was a gym teacher	nope , i love all kinds of food ! do you have one ?
yeah i volunteer at the soup kitchen a lot now	nice , i just enjoy cooking . sometimes i volunteer at the soup kitchen
yeah , its a good cause	that is good ! i am sure you keep in great shape
oh fun , yeah your favorite skateboarder is rob	you should try skateboarding , it could help you lose weight .
yeah he sure can he used to be a salesman , door to door	he can jump a 6 foot fence from a standing position . ll
yeah yeah , man , for sure	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
yeah , i used to skate on the ocean blues	nah , i wish i did . he was brilliant
i am goog i work in a nursing home and just at home on facebook	hello , i am fine , and yourself ?
it was usually being with my children but i am divorced and she took the kids	yes , i have five children and a dog .
maybe if i believed in god i would not go through so much	that is sad ! i am sure it is not true .
we have to believe in us i am overweight and i do not know last time i was happy	lol . everyone has to make a living and pay the bills .
i like soul , r b , jazz	still be in music somehow some way .
nice i wish i could play	i like to sing , do you ?
2 a 5 and 7 year old	yes lots of children , my wife cares for them at home .
i am divorced and i hpe to find someone else once i work on myself	i am single . no kids , u ?
good evening , what are you up to tonight ?	hi ! do you have kids ? i have one . a boy !
your boyfriend is five ? how old are you ?	good afternoon ! how are you today ?
does your mom know you are using the computer ?	oh . i probably have 8 or 10 .
ok , just making sure . i am 40 .	does she not let you ?
i do not , i work too much for kids .	yes i have one . she is two .
maybe . i am working so i can afford a rolls royce ghost .	i have a loving family and might want one for myself one day .
yes , i work for a watch dealer , there is good money in it .	true , they can be just as expensive lol .
i am doing well , thanks . how are you ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
are you doing anything to enjoy the weekend ? i ve been playing ping pong with friends	hi , its going well and you ?
why are you stuck there ? do you work there ?	so no free time . that is difficult .
that s nice . what does she do for a living ? my dad works as an electrician	of course there is one billion chinese . did you like the music ?
i m still in school right now studying chinese and learning to play violin and guitar	no , she is too busy with school work . i should be as well really
awesome ! do you know what you want to study in school ?	what is your job ? i am still in school .
i bet there will be time to figure it out . what are your interests ?	just make sure u study enough
i also like video games ! in addition to ping pong and the guitar and violin	i love video games . and playing my guitar
hello , how are you today ?	i am good . what about you ?
i am doing great , it is rainy here .	hello i am fine and you ?
i am bird watching with my animals	i went to the animal shelter
i love all animals but cats are my favorite . do you like cats ?	i love animals . they are the best .
are you ready for the holidays ?	oh yes very very much like oh my goodness i love them for real .
that sounds fun , i am to old to travel .	yeah we vacation every summer
i am just old , are you young ?	why do you travel all the time ?
i am just to old to tell my age , afraid to travel to much .	well , 7 year old person , do not grow up . life sucks .
i am saddened because my career choices are not supported by my family .	doing well , how about you ?
i deal watches as my current work .	i work in the banking industry . how about you ?
supermarkets are great . i like to shop in them	my job is in car sales . how about you ?
is it your dream job ? i have a rolls royce ghost car as my dream .	cheesecake and tiramisu are delicious .
i think ohio is great to shop for watches and shoes .	i know right , i really need to go there again .
that would be interesting . could you go shopping often with a cat ?	i hope to travel the world some day .
i move around . it helps me be able to keep up with selling watches .	i am from ohio , how about you ?
hi ! good evening . are you just getting up ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
i am a teacher . what do you do ?	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
good luck ! we are in the longest peacetime job expansion in history .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i do some volunteer work . it is good for the mind imo .	you could volunteer your time , it would keep you busy for sure .
25 . it is nice to be young in nyc .	i am 32 , how old are you ?
yes ! what do you do for fun ?	i am to old for that 25 this year
music . i play the piano , my dad was a professional musician .	i play the violin , that is my favorite hobby
not much how are you doing ?	i am making a late dinner
sounds good . i love to watch nhl hockey even though its football day	hi , its going well and you ?
do you like dogs ? i have a german shepherd	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
ahh makes sense . i grew up on a farm so we have tons of animals .	yea , i live on a farm , so i have a few farm animals
and what is your dream ?	www , maybe one day ! and adoption is always an option .
that sounds like the dream .	i love hockey . maybe i will get to play professionally .
yeah , i stay at home and tend to my farm .	what is your dream job ?
just hang out with my husband .	yes . i love giving back to the community i grew up in .
wow , for a couple of years i have been retired	one could only wish , i do all the time .
that stinks , in my spare time i like to gamble	man , i could not do your job . way too much sitting around .
that is such a bummer ! grilling outdoors is my favorite	yea me either , take out does it for me .
dang , i like mowing the lawn on sunny days	i go all the time . how do you keep the lights on ? what do you do ?
yeah , i like taylor swift	i listen to music do you
lol , do you gamble ? because i do in my spare time	do you listen to music while you play ?
oh good point ! i have a buick	i can imagine , definitely worth it though i bet .
i am very great , how are you doing ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
wow sounds very nice . i am drinking wine	hello i am great , just watching tv . how are you
it is very fun . i need it since i have 5 kids	are you married ? any kids ?
what sort of diet are you talking about ?	makes sense . i am more of a wine person .
why is that ? are you a health nut	i love to eat ribs , and other , food . and beer !
haha do you also hit the gym ?	of course , only fruits , vegetables and protein !
never heard of them . who are they ?	yes ! they are my favorite .
i do not listen to music much because i am too busy	i have they do not listen at all .
good just cooking up some paella how about you	i am good thank you for asking , and you ?
my next favorite is some fish and chips it is a weakness of mine	what is your favorite cuisine ?
right now studying art but my true passion is travel . do you like to travel ?	i am currently a college student what about you ?
oh i bet , i go to europe at least twice a year to visit	i love traveling . seven countries in europe over last 20 years .
yeah i have recently found out that i was a relative of cris columbus	the best way to cook fish !
one of my least favorite things to do is pack and unpack	oh , i mostly draw and paint for fun . i do not expect to go anywhere with it
are both of you male or female ?	why do you move so much ?
good . i am four . do you like chocolate ?	hello i am fine and you
are you a good singer ? i love singing	i do like dogs , do you have any ?
are you a sword swallower ? because that would be cool .	well you can talk to me . i do not talk much so i am a great listener !
did you have a dog ? i want to be a dog when i am older !	you just stay on the farm ?
i think i would be a husky if i could	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you get older ?
i like to talk as much as a husky but no one can understand me .	dogs are good animals and so friendly .
what is that ? i am only a small child !	or can say a professional translator . but things are taking another toll in my life
i can spell out words with my blocks !	yeah it is because people can talk .
hello there , i am feeling good and like i might never die . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
nice ! after a busy day of soccer you should unwind with some wine .	hi its going well how is yours going ?
i have not had homework in 80 years . i do not envy you .	have you thought about going back to school ?
back in my day we did not have calculators to help or television to watch .	sounds like the class was boring .
yup , no fancy electronics , but i feel that has made me stronger .	it was . i am used to it by now .
yeah , it was rough 100 years ago .	plus i imagine it allows you to pursue your hobbies !
well cars are a thing now . in my day we did not have them .	it was . i am used to it by now .
i am 100 so not quite the oldest person .	half a century old , that is pretty cool . do you drive ?
hi , yes i am enjoying every mintue . i just watch spiderman the movie .	yeah i am good and you ?
i enjoy fishing , specially in a nice day like today .	did you already cook dinner ?
and i love to cook them , i love cooking as well .	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
yes you do , fish is really healthy .	but i can cook really good i enjoy it .
i love salmon , i can eat every day .	i like to eat foods that are healthy .
i would like to open my own comic book store , i like comic books .	i have a job that i enjoy so that helps . i actually love it
the best of the best is spiderman .	i enjoy cooking though my husband is better .
hi i am good . i just recently came to this country and i am already pregnant	hi ! doing well . how about you ?
yeah but i am expecting triplets in about 3 months	exciting ! will it be your first child ?
no , i already have step children , they are a pain .	yeah . i am sure that all those kids are a handful .
well good for you , i am getting a bigger house now since all the kids	aw , just wait for grand babies
i just bought my first one too and oh my god it is like heaven	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
yeah i bet you do , no i am vegan and i am proud	yes but i love meat .
where do you work ? i am currently working at a school	yes but i love meat .
me too , well i guess i should start eating meat now	i am a stay at home mom i have 3 kids
pretty good . just playing warcraft	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh are you farmers ? i would live to make money like that .	i am doing great and that is cool . you ?
cool . i originally wanted to be a vet but hated it .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
could not handle blood .	i have mixed feelings about it , but whatever .
rock and rap . how about you ?	heavy metal and old school rock .
what do you do for fun ?	i do not really listen to music what about you
i stay on the computer mostly . it is almost an addiction .	i love to ride horses .
ha , not that bad . just need to go outside more .	we love it . just take what we can use and use all of the animal .
i am very well , thank you . you ?	hey . i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i have two kids and like listening to the stones .	hi ! i am doing well , thank you . how are you ?
i love kids , i have two boys and would love to have more .	you should not . or you should try living for yourself instead of for family .
at least six , maybe ten .	they require a lot of time . i spend most my time with them .
it would be , but i love kids .	do you want to have your own kids eventually ?
what grade do you teach ?	how many kids you have ?
oh , okay . i forgot . what grade are you in ?	too young to teach yet , at least that is what my mom says .
nice . are you going to go to college ?	middle school and high school english .
wow , yall are complete opposites .	i am a dancer , what do you do ?
i used to be a receptionist , but got fired last week .	what is your fathers business ?
now i am an insurance salesman . i love to play softball .	that is a good occupation . i would do that if i needed to work .
no . my father is always moving military army .	no but i do get a good deal .
yes , you have said that . what do your parents do ?	you make a lot of money ?
yes , you got it . every time i get a new job , it is time to move again .	how long is there father deployed for ?
i would enjoy the travel better if i did not have to work .	it is okay , i am in it and make pretty good money .
that is one way to put it .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
enjoying a nice evening watching television cooking shows	hello , i am fine and you ?
hummus is one of my favorite foods as a vegan	hello i am great , just watching tv . how are you
do you like rollercoasters or sky diving ? i love them it is exciting .	i drink water most of the time .
i also like to float in the pool because i am a bad swimmer .	i like swimming . i can actually jump straight up out of the water
i listen to country music	i see . i am really into hip hop myself . both personally and professionally .
i remember those they were the toy to have	of course , i listen to it while cooking !
can you believe new kids was on tour last summer	i have never play that one .
yes it does seem that way	believe me , they like it .
i am well , thank you . how are you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
sorry to hear . is that a mini van ? i drive one .	what kind of car do you drive ?
oh dear . hope you sort it out . you have kids ?	you should make me one ! i could pay you for it
family is good . i love spending time with my five sons .	kids make is all worth it , right ?
not really into games . i prefer a glass of wine in the evenings .	i make coffee and brew beer .
you cannot go wrong with a cabernet .	i have never had coffee with alcohol in it . what do you do for work ?
just grab a refreshment somewhere . coffee is my favorite beverage .	i brew beer and make my own coffee .
hey there , that sounds good right now , i am learning a new recipe , love cooking	i am well preparing my favorite meal , an you ?
same pretty much , considering i am not very good at it	my favorite hobby is cooking . how about you ?
single , but not exactly looking . i have given up in a sense . if it happens , it happens	dating , too young for marriage right now .
do you travel at all ?	well maybe your suppose to be single .
i love traveling , i try and experience different cuisines	i have traveled a little bit . and you ?
how many dogs do you have ?	dogs also enjoy travel silly
that is cute , i have one dog , and four cats	both good guesses . 23 actually . i rescue them .
i as well , i am half way to crazy cat lady	i have two dogs and one cat .
i am doing fine . just listening to some country music . my favorite !	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am going to a taylor swift concert tomorrow . i actually met her once .	i am very well , thank you . how old are you ?
i used to ride the bus . now i drive my red nissan pathfinder .	i do that too . got to get the best seat .
i go to school for hairstyling . i need to learn to do my short brown hair .	omg i hate math i am not good at it
that is good . work can be a pain !	hard work will pay off . tell me about yourself .
soccer is fun but i was never good at it .	i played a little bit of soccer in school , but was never really good at it
me too . i have my friends coming over for a party later .	i cant imagine spending so much time on the road .
it is only going to be for a few hours . so a weekday is okay .	yes , i try to go most sundays .
ah , we are a farming family too . you have any pets ?	i have two dogs ! they enjoy running around my farm
we have a german shepard named bacon .	no , i go to church every sunday
we do not go to church often . our religion is hockey .	why not cook some ? i like doing that on sundays . breakfast only though .
ah , your sisters must not be a christian then .	does he she play any sports ?
i guess you always need people to pray for .	she always complain i do not treat her well . . . you married ?
beautiful . one wall in my kitchen is red	haha but you still love her right ?
would you mind praying for my husband . we are trying to find his bio parents .	also love it . red all over . what else are you doing to today ?
me too . he always says he feels like something is missing . i hope he finds it .	i am sure you will love it ! good luck !
my name is rose and i grow them in my garden	i currently work for a museum .
no i am deaf partly and i live in my home alone	no i am the only one , do you ?
i am a tour guide for the museum in town . and i am blonde .	green and what is yours ?
i love to sit outside at night and drink tea the fancy stuff . do you like tea ?	i put it in my tea sometimes . shhh !
i drink non alcoholic drinks . but like to go shoot pool and darts .	no , just sage plants and dried herbs . healthy things .
no i do not dance . i love to read books from my big home library .	haha , my wife made me stop drinking . she is a nurse .
this is the funniest thing i have done all day .	yes , but i love to read used books mainly .
thank you for chatting . have to go to next chat .	used books are the only thing i love to read a lot of .
good afternoon ! i am from new york city . and you ?	i am from california , and yourself ?
i love it here . i love to explore the city .	i am in ohio . do you live in the city ? i have never really been to the city . . .
i love music ! i play a few different instruments and teach piano on the side .	i could not live with out music . all kinds for me .
interesting . i volunteer at a local homeless shelter in my spare time .	i play music because my job is being a musician .
there is a great big world to see .	i am in ohio . do you live in the city ? i have never really been to the city . . .
i can not have a pet . i travel a lot with my father who plays violin professionally .	i never had a cat but might one day .
the who is a great band . also one of my favorites .	i have traveled and played for several shows across the us .
yum ! what is your favorite topping ?	ha pizza is my favorite food also .
yes . baseball , tennis and the olympics are my favorite sports . how about you ?	hello , i am doing okay . how about yourself ?
i am an author , blogger and freelancer . what is your occupation ?	i am a teacher . how about you ?
do you have an information technology degree ?	i like to think i am a pretty good photographer . do you work ?
i earned an undergraduate degree in communications but have not found related work .	yes i did . got a good education too
i live in st . louis , missouri . are there any interesting landmarks near you ?	i am from florida ! i am moving soon
i have traveled to cleveland , cincinnati , miami , niagara falls and the bahamas .	i have not much , but maybe one day ! i take pictures locally
i am a 44 year old male .	no ! only 23 years old , got a long haul of schooling ahead of me . you ?
i am good i live in a rural farm area	hi , i am doing well , how about you
no is that how you make a living ?	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
can you save money that way ?	i bet that you have a lot of fun with that job
very neat . do you watch any sports ?	i do , that is why i make a lot of money .
i love hockey	i love watching hockey . how about you ?
i just watch i am disabled my main joy is coloring	yes , but playing hockey is best of all .
i play with my german shepherd	i work on a farm , caring for the livestock
i have been using the internet to find my husbands parents	i usually play with my dog and browse the internet . its a good life ! haha .
hi , so do i but i am only little so i might spell things wrong !	hello how are you this late night ?
yes , and my home is the cloud so i like white . where do you live	i love anything that is yellow
no , but i can stop time it is a superpower . do you have any ?	yes i love the olympics ! ! and gymnastics !
wow you are clever is it real gold ?	nice , do you like sports ? i won olympic medal
no , maybe when i am a big girl . are you going to olympics again ?	no , i admit i do not .
i like using superpowers like flying . can you fly ?	no , i am not really in to games .
you work very hard . i would like to do a handstand . can you teach it ?	anyone can do it , you just have to try and keep trying .
i am doing well , thanks .	i am doing great thanks
i prefer to workout . it helps me with my career as a pro wrestler .	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
i find those very uncomfortable , they would make it hard to move around .	yes , i do that all the time , it really helps .
i like wearing leggings when i am volunteering at the homeless shelter downtown .	yes because i am so fit , it makes me feel confident .
i think ruffles are very cute . what do you do in your spare time ?	yes . it is a good way to put on muscle . do you ?
i think being healthy is more important than being thin .	yes i like to stay in shape
so do i . i also like to volunteer as much as possible in between wrestling matches .	i also try to workout several times a week to stay healthy and in shape !
what type of work do you do ?	that is good . keep up the great work .
nate the hurrican has pass . my name is tracy and yours ? i am fine .	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
my brother and three sister all live in alabama . any siblings ?	c amon down . i will introduce you to my sister and her dog ciales . ll .
great ! i hope your wife is happy anna . i have two dogs . any pets anna ?	that is a lot of siblings .
high five ! my cat is named grace !	i have six dogs and four cats .
get out ! any brothers ? chicken tacos are great !	that is such a cute name !
good . my dog name is earl . he eats tacos too .	vanilla . . . . ? i take that back . is it chocolate ? ?
wow ! you ever been to alabama ? great place .	did not have siblings so dogs were my family
hello joan ! i am chrissy from minnesota . i am building a robot for my work .	hi , i am fine how are you ? where from ?
this robot will help me because i am allergic to water ! do you enjoy teaching ?	yeah i would say a little unique , and nothing wrong with that .
that is really interesting . i am actually a recluse ! are you christian yourself ?	i do ! that is awesome . i love that !
that is nice . do you sing in their choir ? i am known for twitch streaming .	no , i was not raised religious . sorry .
it is a broadcast software where 45 million gamers gather every month !	if only . it is an awesome game .
i like finance and i am working on selling my game starcraft . walking is fun .	i like building things more than breaking . have you ever played minecraft ?
the gaming world is very intense . do you also like to go jogging ?	i mainly walk places , energy efficient !
hi , all is moving great . thanks for asking	great , how about y o u ?
i kind of do . mainly online courses for now . and you ?	no , i am just trying to study
i mainly do computer and engineering related things . do you like swimming ?	what do you study ? i already graduated .
interesting . i have not tried that . although , i am not a good swimmer	i like swimming . i love the water , nothing specific , could be the ocean , rover or lake
ok . was it that hard to learn ?	was it warm in the pool ?
ok . i guess they were patient and helped you out	by your parents ?
really ? it looks like you must have grown up near water bodies	do they want anything that is specific ?
cool . it was nice chatting with you . i have to go now . bye	because i grew up near it
i am okay . i wish my children would visit more , though .	i am doing fine . and yourself ?
i do , as well . though my husband liked me more when i was younger and prettier .	are you married ? any kids ?
no , i keep to myself . my housekeeping job is not exactly a social one .	i am not in a relationship currently , no .
my 56 year old body would not tolerate that much strain .	no , it never crossed my mind . that could give me more free time .
my diet is not great . that is probably why i have not aged well .	me too . no meat . grow my own veggies .
you are probably right . i was much healthier when i was a painter .	it is good to stay healthy !
i do as well . it used to be my career , but i switched to housekeeping recently .	oh okay . you paint or draw ?
unfortunately , art is not the most lucrative career path . what do you do for a living ?	sometimes there is no choice in jobs . i love to paint and draw .
hey mike here my boyfriend and i are moving in together next week	hi . i am alright . what do you like to do ? i am a writer .
yeah i am interested in taking pictures , of yoda for sure	yes , i think that i do .
yeah i am fluent in english spanish and french	oh sure , i love coffee
cool , i taught a few players being an elementary school teacher	what subject do you teach ?
yeah it was awesome and i was boss	yes , i am a teacher and you ?
yeah it was okay money , we just made money	yeah , if it was not for my bf i mean boss i would not have money either
yeah yeah it sure does my friend	oh okay . i guess that makes sense . so you like photography ?
yeah it would be nice huh	we could like totally start a photography company together !
i am fine . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
what country did you move from ?	eh i am ok , school just started . how are you ?
awesome . i was born in the usa . going to college for a nursing degree .	that was wrong to say ! almost american . . .
cool . i work nights at a local bar to pay tuition and food .	cool ! i have my degree in nursing
nice . having a home must be great . i like to cook at my place . anything but chicken .	it is worth it ! do you have any pets ?
cool . i have two kids each with blonde hair and blue eyes just like mine .	i make chicken nuggets sometimes when i cook . i am a nurse . any other hobbies ?
yes me too . have a great day .	well its been great chatting with you . have a good night !
done . nice chatting with you too .	thanks , we will see . i work as a nurse in the e . r .
that is a lot of cats ! i have two dogs .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i put coats and boots on mine . mom freaks .	how many dogs do you have ?
no thanks , my brother collects them as well .	no , no pets . do you have any ?
i sure can . i am homecoming queen again .	sometimes , it depends on the weather .
you should be ! i am training for a 5k	are you in school , high school or college ?
i hope so too , i am going to dress up as princess leia .	ice cream is awesome , especially the banana .
i am only 17 . i am a senior .	i want to look good .
that is okay . i am going to be a physical therapist	i am older than that so what did you always want to be when you grew up ?
i am ok . mommy says i have to go to bed .	i am good . how about oyu
i do not want too . i want to watch mickey mouse .	haha but you still love her right ?
he is not on in the mornings . do you like the movie frozen ?	yes . i think it will be fun .
how old is she ? does she go to my school ?	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
i am 8 . is she a cheerleader too ?	she is 7 years of age
i played last season , and then mommy made me do cheer	she is 7 years of age
i do not . i liked soccer much better .	i do , but it is not my main thing . i do love soccer , though .
i am also in dance and that takes up a lot of time .	soccer is more fun my parents do not like loud noises
i never learned how . what do you play ?	i do not ! do you ?
i spend most of my time with books in the library ,	i enjoy playing the drums .
most everything , but especially anything to do with traveling .	i like to read books . you ?
no , but i have been to spain .	i love to travel ! i want to go to paris and rome some day . do you ?
i can bet by . maybe i will learn more when i retire .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
english . how about you ? do you work ?	i am fluent in english , french , and arabic
you sound like a smart person who is going places !	i work in education .
impressive ! just how old are you ?	i quit my job translating spanish for my company and have no work .
hello . how was your day ?	hey , i am doing well , you ?
i love fall and wearing fall clothes	hi , its going well and you ?
i understand . it is very scare	you think so huh ? big music fan
i was kidnapped on halloween . very scary	i do not blame you do you have any pets ?
i hate cats . dogs all the way	well i like to play video games .
cats are very boring i think	i am more of a cat person . dogs destroy stuff too much lol
i love to make money	well they keep me up to date with music
hello . i am well , and you ?	hi i am good and you ?
i like metal . how do you feel about coffee ?	hi good and you ?
i love coffee , and i avoid alcohol . it tastes like vinegar to me .	well that is good . . . . do you drink coffee ?
not too much , i bike everywhere , to cut down on my footprint .	i own a lot of different cars .
oh no ! my father was almost hit one day at work , he does road construction .	what do you like to build ?
yes , it is . that is why i avoid alcohol	i heard coffee stunts your growth , get an espresso machine .
i do as well . where did you go to school	i brew beer and make my own coffee .
hello , how are you ? you seem a little excited today !	hey hey !
doing fine for a nerd that keeps to himself . i am trying to finish my special project .	hi ! i am doing alright , how about you ?
well , i am working on my body double , it is a robot built from scratch .	hm , i do not really know . can you help me ?
a robot that played guitar in the game i helped design . heard of starcraft ?	oh , cool , what game are you playing ?
no i do not think so . what do you do for a living ?	nah its not ? i am confused .
amazing ! i just saw willie nelson in concert last night ! what about spare time ?	i play music when i have spare time .
yes , but no sequel . i only drink whiskey because i am allergic to water .	no , i did not that is nice ! is that what you like to do ?
it is an easter egg in the game the orange robot plays the guitar .	haha awesome ! that seems like it gets in the way .
hi ! that sounds fun . in ww 1 my relative was on a ship	are you in the military
i am currently in the military . army to be exact .	i am in the navy .
i like the color blue . my high schools color was blue .	i am in the navy .
no , i dropped out before i finished . i donate to some now .	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
that is good . it brings good karma	well you can donate it to the charity i work for that helps kids
poor bunnies . they need love too .	i bet . animals get attached .
you should get a dog to keep the badgers away .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
a blue dog ? now that i would like to see .	i have one in the army it scares me
i am find thank you and you lets chat .	i am good just watching a movie
i am from new jersey i like going to amusement park	good morning , how is your weather there
i used to be a doctor now retired .	very cool , no not really , staying home with daughter . maybe go to the park
awesome i also like to go to the parks on weekends .	for who the kids ? some of them already went an graduated
yes twitter is very interesting . nice to tweet .	i play sports and take my kids to the park
my little girl is doing child prodigy .	i take my daughter to the park every day
she is great at make up she is a pro .	i bet she is ! does she work ?
cool i hope one day she makes it .	maybe she will be famous one day
hey , how are you ? what are you up to tonight ?	yes . i like to eat .
that sounds fun . i am filling out job applications .	i am just thinking about life tonight , you ?
i am about to go play basketball .	do you have any siblings ? any pets ?
wow ! that is amazing , my sister would never try football .	my older brother plays in the nfl
yea , in my school too , but no girls .	football is fun , whats your favorite team ?
you sound very cool . i am about to go to a concert with my sister .	are either of your parents dentists ?
she just called and wants to take me to see travis scott .	my brother wants to do those , he has all these plans for them .
that is good ! i am watching football highlights .	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
i am a green bay packer fan . do you like football ?	have not watched any games yet this season . any good teams so far ?
how many kids do you have ?	the football team ?
i have kids too . i also have a couple pets .	i have 5 . . . 2 girls and 3 boys .
i have two dogs . what about you ?	2 cats pete and repeat and my dog bongo . they like sports more than my kids .
i was just looking for a housekeeper for my new house !	i have two dogs and one cat .
i jut moved to florida a couple months ago .	i am in florida but i travel to india frequently . you ?
that is sad . i would be upset .	me either its the last state i need to visit . and then its on to canada .
hi ! i am doing fine . what are you studying ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
sure ! show me what you have learned .	i do not speak that . not sure i will learn .
great ! what else do you know in spanish ?	i am familiar with german , but everyone here speaks spanish
you are gifted . i want to go to college too someday .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i want to study law . i know it is difficult though .	i plan to start school again next fall .
oh ? what did you not like about the law ?	i play music because my job is being a musician .
i have thought of that , too . do you have hobbies ?	did the establishment pursue legal action , or simply ask you to pay ?
yes , i like mountain biking . it is so much fun !	i enjoy crafting and painting .
i am doing absolutely great	hello , i am well and yourself ?
that is absolutely great just fantastic	well , do you like walks ?
i get lonely too sometimes	oh dear , seems like a dark cloud has become over you
hamburgers make me feel better about life .	dang that sucks . i bet it gets lonely huh ?
soda make my tummy hurt	i eat whatever i want . my favorite thing to eat is hamburgers .
i really like walking	i suppose it can not hurt
maybe you can fly me around one day	oh cool ! i really would like to learn to fly a plane .
yeah that is cool , what is your favorite color ?	oh well maybe you can do some cloud gazing with them . it is so funn
i m good ! just been reading some journals on psychology .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i like cheeseburgers . i might get some tomorrow before going kayaking .	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
yes ! everyone should also have basic survival skills like my parents taught me .	i learned from a lot of books .
do you volunteer at the soup kitchen ?	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
i m not a fan of war . i would rather be in the peacefulness of nature .	i have figured out how to make a living walking dogs . fun !
are you better off now ?	haha i grew up in a strict atmosphere . as a child
definitely ! maybe you could walk dogs too .	yes i am . i need more motivation .
i can t wait to retire . sadly i have a long way to go .	i have figured out how to make a living walking dogs . fun !
good , i just started working at a gas station	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
yeah , i like it because i use my hands a lot	yes , i love it . do you ?
nice , that is cool . i like to garden as a hobby	i love to crochet , and cook . i am also a crafter knitter
i have a dog and a cat yes	i have a dog and cat . i adopted my dog when he was still a puppy
i cannot pick . i love them both	i keep two canines as tamed animals
yeah , i love baked goods !	no . i just do it for fun . what do you do ?
nice . that sounds like a nice job	so you like to bake
oh yeah . sounds like bliss	what do you like to bake ?
hi that is ok . i have been retired for years from the computer industry .	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
i worked on slot machines . i am a avid gambler . what do you do for fun ?	accounting . and everyone said it was a stable job too
i also like to mow my yard on warm sunny days .	i like to sing , do you ?
i love to grill outdoors . maybe you can come visit for dinner .	i will take it , i love dogs .
that sounds like a plan .	you should call her and ask her to come home .
yes , i do lots of chocolate	no i do not but maybe one day .
well i have to go . winter is coming soon . i have to go south for the winter .	mmm chocolate is so much ! i love a good sunset and a piece of chocolate
fun , i work as a stand double sometimes , do you like to read	hi ! do you have kids ? i have one . a boy !
i read about 20 books a year , i love it	as long as you are reading , that is all that counts .
do you go with your family	i like that one also both of these i read in grade school .
how are you typing	have one child myself and another on the way . ages ?
sure , sounds like it ? so you can read at your age	hey you have to write about your assigned character
ok , well good luck with getting over that	i will have to make time to read it .
ok , so you live with your parents	not very true to the books !
house or apartment building living	i still stay with my parents
hi there ! i am doing very well . listening to rock and cleaning . you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
the chili peppers , they are one of my favorites . the horses love it .	i am not sure really , you ?
we do . i live on a horse farm .	he ha i like to ride horses when i have free time . he ha .
farms are an experience every child should have .	i love to ride horses .
i do not have any either . maybe one day .	do you have or plan to have kids ?
very nice . what does your fiance do ?	you should come to my wedding next week if you can !
very cool . did she ever work with tupac ?	she is living a long life ! mine is just a year old , his name is truffle .
i do not care for her , or others like her .	tupac will always be my first love .
hi , i am kenneth and i use short hair , how are you doing ?	hello , i go to the gym frequently
wow , that sounds odd , meanwhile i just go to the gym often	hi good and you ?
that is good , you can be free to have dogs to , i live with two	that does help make working out more fun .
you are ok now , i just eat when i am bored	haha well those are good things to care about , no dogging ya there ma am
you need a hobby now . i love doing the treadmill and rowing machine	what happens when she eats it
what do you do for a living ?	i should really exercise daily .
you can get money doing construction , better than going to the gym like me	i am a construction worker . how about you ?
tell me something else i don not know about you	like i need to work out more .
hi ! anything but chicken , i d say sushi .	hello , i am doing well . just got off work , how about you ?
i d eat it all the time but my undergrad education is pricey	you should explore how to make some in a class .
i like jazz but my best friend and now roommate plays rock all the time	at the moment , my favorite fall out boy album , but i study nursing in school
just another blonde hair blue eyed malibu beach kid here !	i went to high school i n boston
can t afford any right now . after i finish school and am a nurse want a cat	no cats . . . have a dog and a couple of chickens
that sounds nicer than the dive bar that i work at !	i am a nurse . what about you ?
i work nights at the bar now and wanna do night shift as a nurse	i want to be a nurse .
hello there just came to see what is going on	hi how is your weekend going ?
i enjoy walking my pets during the day for exercise	hi , how is your day going ?
yeah i like to play tennis for a job	oh , does it help keep you in shape ?
yeah i became good at it	yes i play every day i have never had a job and in school
no not at this time and you ?	helping people , but that is pretty much all i got about myself .
oh that is very rewarding	i spend more of my time working
i am married to a healer	i spend too much of my time
yeah a little bit for now	she does , it can be stressful but keeps her head straight . . .
why do you have that	hello , good to talk to you . i am sorry to hear that
that must be really interesting	sad to hear that . i thought you said you worked too much though ?
did you name him after someone	good to know . are you leading a good life ?
so you adopted him ? that is great .	i know nothing about you , what is your favorite color ?
are you married or for your kid	why did you name him that ?
i am sorry about that	we are still married . i guess he just ha other interests .
were you in the military	that is understandable . so not married then ?
my dad is in . i do insurance	no , i use to be in the army
i am great . what are you up to tonight ?	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
yeah ? what do you have going on ?	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
that does sound like a busy day . i will probably lounge by the pool .	we should watch game together .
i am a pro tennis player . i got the pool for the low impact exercise .	i will let you know the next time i am playing out .
me ! i really need a cocktail . it has been a long day .	i would probably be a famous tennis player , like my mom . if i could .
my husband is a doctor an is working out of country right now .	it is actually . are you married ?
that is very nice of you . i used to volunteer with my husband .	that is great . i enjoy my work as well . are you a married individual ?
hi , pretty well ! how are you doing today ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
so , tell me about yourself	great how are you melody ?
i very much enjoy classical and christian music	well most of the time i stick to my passions .
youtube is great , i spend a lot of time looking up youtube videos too	i wish you the best in achieving that goal !
saving money is really important in this day and age	yes . pretty much everything is on youtube .
i am far form that , i drive a tractor and do not mind taking it easy	does it provide a financially secure life ?
not lately , my sister who is an exotic pole dancer really likes her though	no , you do not like spears and she touches me .
i agree i think she is too	i have never heard of her . any good ?
it was nice chatting as well bye !	ha ! do not we all ? well i gotta run . hope things start looking up .
hi . no . i am all about my cats . they are so precious .	yes . i got to play outside , i like that alot .
three . in my off time i am building them a house . just like at my day job .	we have 4 cats . they are so odd at times .
mine are smart . construction work for me . what is your job ?	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
family is important . i learned everything i know from my father .	is that what you want to keep doing . i would love to do something with sports .
you have dogs . how many ?	i take my dog for walks a lot .
good thing your house is big with all of those kids .	i have a few . they support me a lot .
that is great . the pay is probably better than mine for sure .	well , we have bought the house she grew up in , and she stays home with the kids .
i suppose that is true . i like kids . maybe i will have some someday .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
wow the thing i love most is skateboarding	are you in a relationship ? i am not .
o really my all time fave skater is rob dryden all my friends skate	ah fair enough . i do alot of both .
what do you like to do in your spare time ?	who does not ! i totally agree
o that is nice catering for weddings on weekends i love cooking	i like to listen to music
yea i try to stay busy but not lately since i broke my arm	i love to cook . do you cook ?
yea it sucks not being able to skate or cook so tell me about you ?	yes that is a good way to stay busy .
nice you must love music then	i play in a band and own a music store .
i am ariel so what are you doing for the rest of the night	what is your favorite band ?
yes lol why is it weird	i give people nicknames when i break the ice
i am doing well . i am getting ready to go rock climbing .	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i just have my dog , trooper .	no . i like to be with family .
he is a sweet black lab	we are thinking about getting a dog .
he is , we go hiking together a lot .	he is alright . that is a cool job to have .
that is adorable . i never have , but now i will .	lets just say i like ice cream more .
yeah . i am an engineer . maybe i could invent a chocolate that is safe for dogs	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
what do you do for work ?	that is a good idea !
i am good how about you	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh great me , my job really makes me feel bad	good ! i was wondering if you are married ?
40 in a working labor is tough	just make money doing odd jobs .
and my spouse used all the money i earned	i am just a stay at home wife . my husband makes the money .
sales man for car is what my job	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
divorce will make an answer to my wife	i love music of all types
oh it is ok that we are	songs , that is what i listen to all day !
you like this kind of	what a coincidence , i love rock music !
i hate the dentist ! i work at the nursing home	i have a job in the e . r . department at a hospital
that would be good ! are you married ?	i bet if you checked into local churches , you might have luck with a job !
how old ? my wife just recently left me with my children	yes . do you have kids ? i have one
i should . i usually spend my time on facebook	i want to play basketball but i am a horrible player
parks are nice . do you believe in god ? i do not	i like basketball it is my favorite sport to play
well that is good , to each their own i guess	yes i do an i believe we all have .
i love enrique iglesias , he is my favorite	yes , i listen to gospel music and slow jams .
he is good looking as well , haha	what kind of music does he sing ?
i am good and yourself ?	i am good . where do you live ?
fun . i am getting ready to go to work .	i am doing great . how about you ?
i cannot stand tanning beds , they get to hot .	how does anyone afford it ?
i cannot wait to move out on my own . my parents are always bothering me	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
i work part time at burger king , so i eat burgers a lot	oh yes and a good veggie burger is wonderful .
i feel it . like i do not drink or do drugs , just let me live .	to be honest , i do not move around much these days haha
dude i feel it . i just want to hang with my friends and enjoy life .	do you work anywhere ? i have a part time job .
now i could go for an iced caramel macchiato	i am already tanned naturally .
hi , how old are you ?	hello , what are you up to ?
older than you , wanna guess ?	i am not , i am only 18 .
not that old , mid 20 . how is your day anyway	how old are you , if you do not mind me asking ?
you must be a positive person ? have you ever done something guilty ? just curious	how is your day going ?
well , that is good , but sometimes people just cannot have control over themselves , you know	well it is a crime . just saying .
but it is hard . everytime i tried , it fails	you must really feel it too in a way .
well , even though i live with my mom , but she does not have much time for me .	i do not think that would be helpful
no , they will say something nice , then just forget it the second day .	it might help her build character . we expect a lot from her .
i am in quite a pickle , do you happen to have a nickle ?	have one child myself and another on the way . ages ?
if you visit me on the moon i can give you a birthday present	no , people give me terrible headaches .
side effects are a frame of mind , not a real physical thing	i actually make birthday cakes . congratulations on your 15th birthday !
i will build you a spaceship in no time	okay i see , that stuff is so confusing to me lol
i saw a man drink so much booze he drank himself sober	you just stay on the farm ?
i never broke a bone in my body with large amounts of vitamin d	many people do not care about that .
man everything can be changed through belief , even your dna , change your reality	that does not help me out much , but thank you for telling me .
you do not sit in the reality , you are the reality !	true , i am a proof of that ! what food do you like ?
i am doing good how are you ?	hi , i am good . what about you ?
i am from alaska . how about you ?	hi . i am good . you ?
do you meditate ? i love to	i am also a buddhist
i practice buddhism , so i do that a lot .	i do all the time , no i have not been . maybe one day . are you religious ?
cool . i have not spoke a word out loud in three whole months	what do you do ? i teach yoga classes
it is part of my spiritual practice	yes i am . i need more motivation .
haha do not worry about me	i am sorry , i do not understand your question statement .
that is impressive , have you always been ?	oh you must be a vegan .
i am good , thanks . what workout do you do ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i actually used to teach gym	no , i am not really in to games .
i am retired now but trying to keep in shape as i do love my cheeseburgers !	that is a great way to stay active
i probably should too . i like documentaries , war mostly .	just carb free foods mostly .
that is so worthwhile . i was pretty poor when i was young .	i want to open a homeless shelter
that is so worthwhile . i was pretty poor when i was young .	i definitely agree . food , housing , financial support .
that is so worthwhile . i was pretty poor when i was young .	totally agree . thanks for chatting , its been great . have a good one !
good just finished doing my daily 3 mile walk	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
o really how many different birds have you seen or n estimate	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
thanksgiving i get to see family from far away	i do not do it ton but it is relaxing .
italy , spain and from mexico we are all over lol	i live in north carolina , how about you ?
yes i just hate passing security everytime or the wait times to get on airplane	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
nice i tried doing crazy hair but i am a delivery nurse so its frown upon	hmmm tell me something interesting about you ! do you travel ?
yes here in chicago downtown	i work at the local hospital . how about you ?
me too ! hopefully they win this one but 1 to 1 in the 9th	yes . my family owns one and i work on it .
awesome ! i am a twitch streamer , do you think she will come on my show ?	hey ! ! ! !
sweet ! i am working on a robot , maybe i can make her one as well .	aww , what is her name ?
i am a video game designer , and people say that makes me a recluse .	ll ! ! ! not sure i want to try that one ! ! !
as long as they do not have a water table , i am allergic .	well of course they do !
yuck . i am afraid of spiders .	i would love to eat some ! anything else interesting about your life ?
no , i did not mention the spider .	i think i have seen that . it was inspiring .
yes . but i am not a spider .	i was actually thinking that when you first mentioned it .
really ? chocolate ? i disdain the very thought .	chocolate milk is delicious is not it ! ?
how old are you ? what grade are you in ?	haha . that is funny . wish you were in my classes .
4 and a quarter years ? or four and a quarter decades ?	yes , i am only 10 years old . i will be in school for a while . lol
well miss chocolate , what is your favorite book ?	i am a writer and writing my first book . before the end of this year .
i am partial to peppa the pig	i like movies about dogs . i have two dogs . do you have pets ?
when i grow up i want to polish the sun and the moon	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
what do you want to do when you grow up ?	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
oh yes , that sounds fun until you have to eat your dinner !	i want to be a vet
hi my name is charlie and i have dark brown curls . and i do fine .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i ride horses on the weekends and i do not eat meat .	that is an excellent profession . for how long ?
no clowns for me either i do like purple and green for a bedroom .	oh i am sorry about that .
right i eat a lot of fruit and nuts and tofu .	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
i like to climb trees an play on the playground .	i like to cook and garden .
how old are you i am 52 and i like to travel .	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
blind dates ugh i like to eat sandwiches with mayo and lettuce only	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
very young i bet you like to crawl on the floor .	i like tofu and organic rice
i am good ! i was just baking cookies . what about you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
what happened ? did you get into trouble ?	i like to cook and bake as well
oh no . maybe when i was younger . do you have any pets ?	no , it is just myself and my dog .
one dog sugar . i named her after my famous sugar cookies !	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
oh ! i take them to my county bake sale . i love it there . where are you from ?	i bake on occasion its fun . are you married
have you ever tried knitting ? i feel like it is the only thing i have anymore .	i live in nyc how about you ?
well being as old as me , it takes my mind off my soon impending end .	we have a bunch of dogs i sure care a lot about them . do you like dogs ?
do you work at the food bank ? i would love to volunteer sometime	does the future scare you ?
hello , new york . i am ohio . do you like country music ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
how nice , i am a singer .	i enjoy lots of music . any you prefer ?
i play guitar , have since three . i would not be happy in a stuffy office .	well , congrats on graduation ! i bet you felt pretty on your graduation day . i want that
i would not know about that , i camp a lot when i am not on the road .	yeah , you should have been kicked out for touching people against their will .
i do not . i am conservative in my spending .	i do but i am not very good at it .
no , i donate a lot of it to others who have more need for it than i .	it does not sound like easy money to me .
i do not . my fiance is a detective .	there is good money in it and its a passion of mine so worth it
i do not . do i need one ?	no but i like it .
just finished working in the supermarket	i am doing well . where are you from ?
for a while now since i got my cat	i am good on my way to work
spook has been with me since then	i like working out and helping animals
just listening to the who music	i like to work outside .
yes it is and i never went somewhere else	i love it ! what band do you like to listen to ?
work work work and work	what would you say your favorite band is ?
most likely i do not know how	i do not work , just travel .
to have some fun and been stuck	i do not think i know what that is
how are you ? i am larry and i love to cook !	i am well and yourself . i have this fetish for cooking for people .
i am great ! i am chef and an avid fisherman .	i agree ! sharing fishing and cooking with them would be nice too
what do you like to do in your spare time ? i am either cooking or outside .	yes ! i am currently a personal chef , but would love to open a restaurant one day
do you have any favorite movies ? i love spiderman ! ! !	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
that sounds awesome ! you have quite a full life .	yes , but i love to read used books mainly .
i read anything with spiderman !	the best way to cook fish !
i love making ice cream ! i make it in the restaurant all the time .	the best way to cook fish !
hola i am great	hello , i am fine and you ?
yes i am a student intern that studies different languages	hello . busy , but good . you ?
wow that is awesome . and your trabajo is pretty nice	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i love to study spanish as you can probably tell , on to french next	i am translator , i speak english and spanish
amazing . do you study and languages	that is cool ! i do kayaking personally
awe you are missing out spanish is my favorite and trabajo is my favorite word	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
i never met my parents	it was different . i only speak english . i would love to learn spanish .
its ok basically raised myself so its cool	i taught myself french and i learned spanish in high school
i am okay . i just finished watching an old horror movie	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
it was dracula from 1932	i am doing great ! my son likes that book did you like it
but the old ones are beter . even my junior high school son likes them	oh ! did you like the sequel ? i saw the first one with my moms .
greys are wonderful . what is your favorite movie ?	really ? whats your all time favorite film ?
my dad used to see scorpions when he worked at home depot .	you read too many horror novels . . .
nascar is exciting . i spent a long time working in human services which was really boring .	my father was a carsalesman . i turned out to be a very happy person .
i love dogs . i have a sweet rescue dog .	nope . i like dogs , but do not like the hassle . you ?
okay . it was great talking to you .	yes , it was nice chatting with you , too !
it is going well . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i used to be a painter , i still like to do that a lot . how about you ?	hello . busy , but good . you ?
how old are you ? do you have any children ?	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
i am 56 . what do you do for a living ?	no , no kids . i am a 32 year old who still leaves at home
i am a housekeeper , not very exciting .	i am a finance consultant for a bank
i hear you . what do you like to cook ?	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
sounds good to me ! nothing better than a hamburger cooked really well .	i enjoy crafting and painting .
cool . riding horses is my thing .	what do you do ? i go to college .
you are married ? i will finish high school in two years .	yes , i would love to . i am in college .
how romantic ! i get teased by girls at school .	cool . i am not great at sports , but that is okay .
that is kind of you . you want a kid with curly brown hair ?	smart thinking ! i will remember that if i ever have kids of my own .
i will need a bedroom painted in purple and lime green though .	what color is your hair ! brown here ! its curly and a pain in the butt !
that is the color of my room now . love it .	sure . we can hang out in the new mansion i just bought afterwards .
very bold colors ! do you have a mohawk too ?	you really should . my kids want horses .
my kind of guy ! he will make a great stepdad .	yes , my brother an i have bright red hair .
i love going to church and owing dogs .	hello ! i am good and you ?
as a woman and a school teacher i feel very powerful	well , i love dogs at least . i have two .
you got a good taste , winter is coming too	i do like dogs , do you have any ?
glad you understand how i feel . what do you do ?	haha , seems you workout all the time
i am skinny too , it makes me feel good	i listen to music do you
me too , video games are great	do you play video games ?
do you like dogs ? i have two .	do you play video games ?
i love eating burgers with lettuce	dogs 2 of them and love them u ?
hi ! i eat very cleanly .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
yup love it . i also survived cancer though .	what about food ? whats your favorite ?
yes it was hard . i love to run . how about you ?	yeah . i used to love it , but now its stressful .
that is fine . i also like preparing for marathons .	i am a runner , i love marathons .
it is . promoting is one of the hardest one .	do you run marathons ? i am interested in doing one myself .
promoting the marathon to all the people and the awareness is really a pain	absolutely . you sound like an ambitious person .
yes . it is always for a cause and always a pleasure .	sometimes i run to keep my mind off bad things going on .
thanks what do you do though ?	do you run marathons ? i am interested in doing one myself .
so tired . just laying on the couch reading my weekly book . you ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
that sounds fun . i wonder if i could do that while pregnant ?	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
i like some of it . it is popular here in pennsylvania .	i do i like all music , especially country . what is your favorite ?
do you like movies ? i live documentaries .	i love dogs ! we have some where i work that play with the kids .
do you work at all ? i have been working a pa job a few months .	yes , i love movies . especially comedy , horror , and fantasy . you ?
that sounds great ! my weekly goal of reading a new book keeps me busy .	i work , but my husband stays home to look after our kid .
that sounds like fun too !	i have never been scared by a book . i would rather watch movies .
i cannot wait to have this baby . she is my first .	i have 2 dogs !
my name is jerry . i farm bees for a living . you ?	hi there , i do not know what i am doing
yes , i like to cook too . but i am not a pro like you	yeah ! cooking is a passion of mine , i do it all the time for my family
yes , i fly fish . i love it . i wish i could invite my family	yes , i like to boat sometimes .
i have no family close to me	you should . my family loves it . do you live close to family ?
i like spawn and the x men	yes , i think that i do .
he is a good character for sure	he is into all that stuff . what else are you into ?
ha that sounds good ! what is your favorite food ?	i might be profitable . i say we try .
nice . my favorite is a fruit papaya !	my favorite food is an old family recipe for italian pasta .
hello i am from california . i am good and yourself ?	hello , i am fine , and yourself ?
oh should go to cali . i love living here . where have you travelled ?	i live in canada at this time .
i thought about being a chef for the army	i have been all over the world . i am military .
i do not . i cook a lot of seafood like shrimp , catfish , etc	no . yes . i do not know really .
ha ha did not meant to get you hungry . i like to fish .	i love eating shrimp . especially with barbecue sauce
what were you going to school for ?	i am aspiring to be a chef and i have been trying lots of fish recipes lately .
really ? i am sorry to hear that . i always loved school	i want to become a chef
hi , i am great , how about you ?	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
cool ! do you twitter ? i browse the internet a lot .	i am doing great and that is cool . you ?
if you have never chatted with a feminist , you can say you have now .	those things take up most of my time . how about you ?
lol . have you heard of solar panels ? i have them on my roof .	i have to agree with you on that one for sure !
i live in a tiny home and all my food i buy is organic .	yes , i get alot of customers online .
wow , small world . i am a vegan too . that was nice of your daddy .	i make a very good vegan quesadilla .
that is a good man are you going to follow in his footsteps ?	well you can donate it to the charity i work for that helps kids
that could be a good profession , too . i am retired at 32 .	that is a good profession i am not sure what i wanna be yet
i am just fine . my name is priya , and you ?	i am good . . . do not think so .
not so bad , just listening to some death metal . you ?	good thank you , how are you doing today ? any special plans ?
i supposed , but i do not listen to them . can you swim ?	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
i do not live close to the water , but i am a swim coach in delhi .	no . above water . not a good swimmer
yes , i am a free spirit , but my mom is so traditional . where are you from ?	yes , i like swimming . what is you favorite hobby ?
one day i want to go to america . it can be sketchy here .	i do travel some i go to india quite a bit .
in the news paper when someone dies they put the body in the paper to identify	yes i know . i like to go to the pool and forget my worries .
i am healthy thank you dirk	i hope you will be able to someday . do you have a family ?
i hope it is a healthy snack . i am doing well , just moved here .	hello ! i am good and you ?
i too am vegan from germany . have you seen lafer ! lichter ! lecker ! on tv ?	in in florida , you ? got any pets ?
they do amazing things with the hummus . where is back home for you ?	yes , its a lot of fun . we watch it sometimes .
we are long lost twins ! will you go skydiving with me ?	i love to travel everywhere ! where have you been ?
the roller coasters here do not compare to that of heide park .	no but i would love to go !
you are a delight ! we shall travel the world looking for the best roller coasters .	well lets plan to go !
that is funny . enjoy your snack and we can speak again soon .	haha , yeah ! i like that !
if ever you are back in germany let us meet at the heide dorf .	thank you for taking the time to chat with me !
hello , i am very well . and you ?	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
i do , i love metallica , i never heard them in india .	no i am strictly into music . music my life
they are great too . so are the chili peppers .	cool ! ! that is awesome ! me too , but the rolling stones is my favorite
i am in college , studying it .	i like to fish and swim .
very nice . i would love to travel .	i am majoring in development of software . it is fun learning this new thing .
i am looking at a house as well .	where would you like to travel ?
i would like children and a husband one day .	do you have kids ? married ?
oh no . i prepare traditional dishes .	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
hello . my hopes and dreams are to spend time with friends having fun .	well some things i have not told my parents not sure how they will take it
that sounds like fun . i work at burger king and i still live at home at 19 .	that would be fun ! i just started a new career .
i just want to move out . they are always on my back .	i want to be older and move out of this place
maybe i will help more . i do not do anything wrong . . . no drugs . . . nothing	i can totally help you . since we are friends now , i will do it for free
why thank you . that sure does mean a lot .	yikes , you have to make time for friends and fun .
i am sure you still are ! it is the insides that count !	so now did you change or you want to continue like that ?
i bet you are a wonderful painter . i like to paint .	oh really , do you paint or draw ?
popularity and money are not everything .	i also kinda paint when i have free time .
i am from the land down under	good morning , how is your weather there
like i said i am form the land down under	no . some day perchance . you ?
my mom is a dentist	why ? it is there fault .
she thinks she is a real doctor	but are you going to prepare it your self or wanna buy from a restaurant ?
i lost my front teeth playing basketball	my mom was a dentist
yeah some woman who calls herself a doctor replaces them	i didn
my mom is dead to me	mmmm i mean should not she love you automatically ?
lol you are so lucky	she lost her job a few months ago .
i am well , how about yourself ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i see . i just got home from work , actually . we are on separate schedules !	hi , i am doing fine , how are you doing ?
that sounds great . i just moved here from germany , so the time zone is very different .	do you have any pets ? i have a dog .
what hobbies are you into ? i love rollercoasters , skydiving , and swimming . though i am a bad swimmer .	i stay in the states for now , school keeps me very busy .
how fun ! what foods do you enjoy ? i am vegan and love hummus .	i like to eat fish and go swimming . good fit right ?
that sounds so gratifying ! i will not eat meat , but that sounds fun .	yuck ! i do not eat any animal products .
haha , yes . we can eat a pot roast !	yes ! that would be awesome .
i am a software engineer working for boeing . i just moved stateside to live with family .	i am employed . i would with food .
hello ! i am doing well , thanks . yourself ?	hello i am fine and you ?
that must be beautiful ! i am just playing some guitar , being a musician can be boring .	i am good i was just out riding my horse how are you ?
i bet . luckily , i do other stuff like study languages to keep me occupied .	i am hoping that speaking three languages will help me .
that is exciting . do you know any languages ? i am learning spanish .	getting a law degree sounds grueling !
i am not great at speaking yet , but my favorite word in spanish is trabajo !	i am fluent in english , french , and arabic
haha ! i wish i had some tacos . trabajo means . . . . . . work ! !	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i teach music lessons to kids and young adults .	i speak only english , and a little spanish
hi how are you doing that sounds great .	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
not old you are still young try 50 i am getting old .	that makes you in your 50s !
yes i like and love all animals i have three cats .	no cats , at least inside
oh they are great for company just like family .	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
i have a collection full of hats and have 1000 of them .	i love designing video games . do you have any family ?
i like to dance do hair and make up and cook .	do you sell the games you like to play ? or boring stuff ? !
i am not working right now my best season i would the winter .	i work at office depot . boring .
i also have a weakness for tasty vanilla ice cream .	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
so far so good , how about you ?	good morning , its going pretty well how is your day ?
same , i was hoping to get work done outside today but that is not happening .	good ! it is beautiful out this morning . how are you ?
i would not say a lot , just fall cleanup stuff	no . all i do is work . no time for fun . plus , too much mess .
what is your name by the way ?	i would not like to clean them in this weather .
george , nice to meet you jason . i am from ny . what about you ?	i am from illinois , how about you ?
what do you do for work ?	oh . i would love to live on an island .
do you like honey ? i farm it . it is not very exciting either	nothing fancy . just factory work . you ?
i hate heights ! i am mandi	hi . what do you do for fun ?
sounds fun ! i do not work , i volunteer at a food bank periodically	yes , and it takes a lot of money to feed them ? do you have pets ?
no mine are pretty cool good thing too because i love to party	no , it is just myself and my dog .
that is crazy ! do you have any pets ?	i guess parents sometimes think they do the right thing .
aww ! i have a cat , gizmo and a dog , dixie	yes i have a cat she is so cute
i bet she is beautiful !	yes she is a husky that has wolf abilities lol
my fox terrier is also very hyper	i bet she is ! does she work ?
i was thinking of walking the dog , and you ?	yes i am getting ready right now !
i am doing very well thank you . how are you ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
i have three kids who need to get to soccer practice .	i am well . . . . got a small problem maybe you can help
no one would want to live forever . it would be quite boring .	i can relate , looking for work these days is difficult . what is your profession ?
that was a much better world . i do not like all of this electronics	we should watch game together .
that is the way things need to get back to .	oh , so no ice cream for you then . haha
i always do . i am very close to my kids and my bonus kid	that is true . what is your family life like ?
it was the best thing i ever did . we are both on round too .	are you close with your family ?
we do , and we love to travel .	ll i like a little chocolate also . .
hello there i hope you are having a great weekend	hi ! do you have kids ? i have one . a boy !
i like to read a lot , i read all the time	i have still not seen that movie . if i had kids i probably would have
i like movies a lot , documentaries mostly	i have not done it . i have 2 kids so i have no time .
oh , that is rough , it is hard to swim while pregnant	what is your favorite genre ?
i am having my first child with my husband	yeah , i totally agree about that
not yet , i am hoping for a boy , my husband want a girl	no , as a matter of fact i do not . i see no need for it
i just started a job too , three months ago in pennsylvania	i sure hope so ! maybe soon .
consultation , at a big business firm	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
i am doing good , how are you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
that is great ! i just became a life coach since yesterday .	i am doing great ! how are you doing ?
thank you , how much did you pay for the house ?	i agree with you on that !
yes that is a lot of money , are you athletic ?	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
what sports do you do ? me and my parents were both athletic and so am i .	of course , only fruits , vegetables and protein !
what is badminton , i have never heard of it ?	i am a professional basketball player
wow , i would love to try it sometime , it sounds cool .	haha , my father always said that pro sports are all scripted results
great ! about to go get some tacos ! how are you ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
i am a dog trainer , my sisters and i opened a service !	i am a lab assistant in nashville
nice ! do you have siblings ? i have 3 older sisters and one little brother .	i have three brothers , how many do you have ?
love them ! i go to alabama fest every year ! its down the road from my house .	no , i do not . i never had much of an opportunity to do so .
do you have strict parents ?	what is it you do on the road ?
well that is nice ! do you play sports ?	i do , but we have no dogs . we are a poor family .
really cool ! is that where you live ?	football most of the time . .
yes yellow is fine how are you doing i am okay .	good morning ! i am having coffee . how is your morning ?
it is okay cool i used to play football in school .	cool . i am not great at sports , but that is okay .
i am disabled now so i drink coffees and stay home .	i actually attend college and take a literature class .
great me too i like writing poetry very creative . unique .	can you make a good cup of coffee ?
i also am a big fan of the star wars movies the old ones was good .	i enjoy reading when i have time .
that is okay we all have our differences in likes .	did you ever play football ?
i write poetry and then make them into a song .	likewise , i am sure . you like football ?
yes thank you so much you are an awesome friend .	ha ha ! ! well it helps when you enjoy football .
hello , thanks . mine is great . how is yours going ?	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
wow , so sorry to hear about that .	its going well . how is yours ?
that is sad , like something taylor swift would sing about . i love her .	oh no , did he get in trouble ?
i do not have kids . my nissan pathfinder can really act crazy though !	she is ok , she is living life .
i manage a convenience store . i would like to have kids someday .	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
when i was in nashville i bumped into taylor swift in the bathroom !	yes . i am so sorry about that . i hope you take my advice .
shy . i just had my mouse brown hair cut short and did not feel pretty .	definitely ! took a while to get into !
that is so sweet ! thank you ! you are an incredible person .	it grows in the heart , i love country music .
i think we are all beautiful and special in our own way .	it is ok to follow your own path !
i agree . be positive , claim your power , and live life to the fullest !	hard to compare , to be honest . what do you do for fun ?
even though i have lived on earth for 100 years , i have not heard anything better .	no , like bob dylans song . do you dig folk ?
i am too old to drive . i was around when nobody owned a television !	i do not have a car though
i used to drive a muscle car . i am so old , i may never die !	you could buy used ford cars . maintenance is crucial though .
do you sell wine in your store ?	i see ! must make a lot of money for yourself !
i love wine , especially while dancing outside at night !	yes but i do some of it as well .
that is a healthy hobby . i dance and keeps me very strong , especially for my age .	yes i respect the country very much .
i feel so young ! i want to pick up more hobbies .	being younger than 46 , i would have to say live the way you want haha
i wonder if you need a license to be a wine reviewer .	yes ! you have good taste in show and movies .
good , i was just finishing looking thru my closet for old items .	hi ! great thanks , and yours ?
yes . i found my old lite brite from the eighties . it was my fav . toy .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
very cool . i had one of those .	i did not know that .
i work with computers . but once a week i take dancing lessons .	i am a freelance artist .
same here . i was born in 1981 but i have never had a drink .	do you ever do illegal drugs ?
i agree . what kind of music do you like ?	what do you like to make ? i also enjoy chatting with friends .
i like pop . new kids on the block , my favorite .	classical , rock , classical rock . ll . music is great for the mind .
evening roland , i am shariah . i am fine , how are you ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
sending good luck your way . i am a dancer but i love to eat .	i am doing good . so tell me about yourself .
i love contemporary and hip hop , but i am currently studying ballet .	yes ! and dancing as well .
no they died in somalia before my aunt helped me escape to the united states .	i have 1 brother and a sister but i am the oldest
the man i was forced to marry was a dentist . are you married ?	same mother is teacher as well . father dentist .
he was nice , i am divorced now though . what job are you looking for ?	no siblings for me . are you married ?
i am sorry you did mention . i teach dance to troubled youth .	i work at a restaurant . you ?
i do care . i love to give back anyway i can . what about you ?	i bet that will help lots of people in the world .
i watch tv does that count ? lol	besides working out and cars , i am a architect . you ?
yep i believe it does lol where do you work ? i work at home	who you betting for this year ?
sounds wonderful ! i am trying to finally get a steady relationship	yes that is a good way to stay busy .
i live in ohio , and you ?	i live in nyc how about you ?
awesome ! i wish i did , but i spend a lot of money on cars	i like to work on cars and to travel
yes that is fun ! i go to the gym often to socialize	you should always find the time for the hobbies you enjoy !
both seem like fun hobbies !	i see , you like gambling ?
what is your favorite thing to grill ?	absolutely ! do you have any other hobbies ?
hi , i am justin . i am on tour and just came in from a performance	hello , i am fine and you ?
it is my life . i was born into it . both of my parents are musicians	are you trying to find a full time job ?
great . very good to start young . i have been playing guitar since i was three	who is your favorite singer ?
i schedule stops at national parks . maybe you both could come to a show	do you have a favorite singer ?
what do you try to do in your free time ?	you might want to go see a doctor .
i like watching old westerns when i am not rehearsing .	i love movies . whats your fave ?
not really anything special . i like to cook for my crew . that is about it .	i play guitar but i study music industry .
yes , i like wii gymnastic games because its my best sport .	i do not , do you ?
you like garlic bread ? i do and i go to the gym everyday .	do you play video games ?
interesting ! i look good in anything yellow . what about you ?	i wonder if you are a real person , or a robot .
cool ! my toy robot is an olympian just like me . wierd huh ?	no i do not like it .
yes i love to twitch dance . do you twists . twisting gives you a good workout .	i wonder if you are a real person , or a robot .
thanks for sharing that . i want some italian food today . you hungry ?	yes . it is a good way to put on muscle . do you ?
right ! do you workout or just play on websites ? do people generally dislike you ?	no , i love a challenge . i want to eat it all .
oh you got jokes huh ? people are disposable objects . what your favorite color ?	i seem to live online pretending to be other people .
that is great ! are you going to college ?	i also should have finished my degree by now , but it is taking a while .
that is kind of similar to the way i eat , i can only eat kosher	you should explore how to make some in a class .
kosher means that it has been blessed by a rabbi	what does the dish consist of ?
it is very rad .	yes , i believe in that sincerely . how is work for you ?
i have done it my whole life . i was raised jewish by my single mother	it has been almost four years .
that sounds interesting .	olive garden makes it easy lol
i am usually pretty proactive when i go out to eat . i call ahead and check	nah its not ? i am confused .
it can be . i eat out a lot because of my job .	there are a lot of healthy recipe boks out there that could be helpful .
eww boys are gross ! i like playing with my classmates at playtime	i am doing great what do you do for fun ?
how old are you now ?	where did you attend high school ?
i am in third grade . do you have a favorite place ?	how old are you ? i am 10
flowers are so pretty . my favorite place is disney .	we like any disney movie . actually going there next week with the kids .
i get to see all my favorite characters ! my parents take me there every year	i am going to look for disney movie , maybe an old one .
they are nice except when i get in trouble . do you have a favorite movie ?	i love to watch disney movies , sounds silly , but they are my favorite .
i like frozen , i know all the words to to the songs !	yeah , its hilarious . sometimes hard to watch .
i do speak multiple languages . which ones do you speak ?	yes . do you have kids ? i have one
those happen to all be languages i speak . i want to visit france sometime .	no do you speak another language ?
i think it would be nice . what are some of your hobbies ?	you speak good english for living in france . where you born there ?
i love planning world domination . i also like knitting .	i hike , read , craft . what about you ?
hopefully within the next few years . i am 55 so the sooner the better !	well going to try and travel to europe . never have been .
i would love to . i enjoy large attractions .	i am sure ! i have been wanting to go to france .
definitely the mona lisa ! i used to be a painter .	i hope to travel the world some day .
hello . how are you and where are you from ?	hey . i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i live on a michigan farm . i love to drive the tractors .	what kind of work ?
i am into calmer things . i love classical music and nature .	me too my favorite one is the bible .
i really like kids but do not have any . i am twenty four and want four kids .	yes i love to listen to gospel music .
my parents are also great .	my parents are very religious . i am afraid they will not understand .
yes . i do a lot of work on the farm . i work on and drive the tractors .	yes , i listen to gospel music and slow jams .
that is good . home maintenance is important .	are you christian ?
i want to do what my parents do and farm .	i hope you find a job . my prayers are with you .
doing well thanks . getting ready for work and volunteering tomorrow .	hi , i am doing well , how about you
that sounds lovely . i get to spend time at the rabbit rescue .	practice all you can and it will pay off one day !
this is a local place . i donate a portion of my check each month .	every day i have to clean and feed them . where are you live ?
i work at the shipyard , now that i am out of the navy .	it allows me to save money .
that is interesting ! i continued at the shipyard because of my dedication to the water .	mandarin . china will own the 21st century
when i was younger , my favorite color was blue like the water .	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
i believe so . i try to be close to the water always .	lol blue is . that is why i like being around the water .
does the chocolate help you in some way ?	i do like chocolate though . thanks for the pick me up !
i am good . how are you ? my name is rob .	hi , i am doing well , how about you
what did you read ? i like to read too . i also love to garden .	hi ! great thanks , and yours ?
carrots ! i also like working manually with my hands . do you work ?	i like to sew and cook . i plant my own veggies and herbs in my garden
be careful . i just got hired . it is a nice gas station .	i do work , at a power plant .
two days . also i keep getting set up on blind dates by my father .	i am not sure really its been so long
yes i like women but scared of clowns because of trauma in childhood .	yes me too he is teaching me so much .
i was adopted to two older people who dressed up as clowns to scare me !	i was in a car accident when i was younger .
yes i stil have nightmares about it . is there anything else you want to talk about ?	really ? it was kind of embarrassing sometimes
hi ! i enjoy classical music .	i enjoy lots of music . any you prefer ?
yes it is ! how is your family ? my sisters profession is pole dancing	ah , music has always helped me see the finer things in life , would not you agree ?
yeah she likes it . says its a great workout . what do you do ? .	could you imagine her with red hair ?
that sounds like a hard job . i am a christian teacher	that is an honorable profession . what do you do ?
aw man , that really must be hard .	oh i take it you have a religious family
aw man . are you ok	yeah i bet ! that must be difficult .
that is hard . do you like your job ?	what happened to you ? hurt a leg or something ?
do whatever makes sure your safe	yes . i am going to work .
well good afternoon there brother	i do not think i am .
i actually care . what is your favorite color ?	hey that is good . you do a lot of yoga ?
you need to take the red pill	i love the color red .
i only need to meditate	i like my job . i want to be a yoga instructor , though .
i reside in the north . alaska specifically	that would render you ineffective , lol
it is surprisingly hot here	i live in southern california , right near the ocean .
i go to alaska to meditate	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
i pray to buddha and i get rich	i am a buddhist , i am a peaceful person .
nope , i work in a hat shop 24 7 . my name is sophie by the way .	yes i do , do you ?
maybe i will see if my sister needs volunteers at the bakery where she works .	how do you have time for so many cats ?
you sound like a kind person .	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
i find that ice cream makes everything better .	i sometimes wish i could be that way .
good thing i love running . i actually have an olympic gold metal for running .	it is kind of my weakness , yes .
it is a family owned business . i broke my leg and so i work there now .	i do not work what about you
that is okay . it was so long ago . i like my work now .	oh , i am sorry about that .
do you use a gym , your own living room , or the great outdoors ?	do you mean ice skating ?
i love bunnies but i am busy moving into a new apartment with my boyfriend	no , maybe i will someday , you ?
the navy sounds tough . i teach elementary school .	oh wow ! you know , i dabble in photography ; maybe you can introduce us sometime .
i would like to take pictures of the bunnies . do you help alot of rabbits ?	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
i just enjoy photography and the colors red and silver .	i am taking pictures . i am a photographer
your bunny sounds adorable . bunnies are very gentle and quiet animals	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
yes i am excited about the move . thank you for your service	yes , and it is going to be next week .
it is a challenge . i teach english spanish and french	my goal is to be a famous photographer . i love taking pictures of exotic places .
i would love too . i hope i could help the wonderful creatures	i consider myself an amateur photographer myself . i am pretty good at it .
great ! i am traveling round the world for a year .	hi good and you ?
it is cool . i have a yacht . when i am not using it , i rent it out .	you should go to a tropical island and do it in the ocean .
oh . maybe i can help . i like to cook , although i am no expert .	being poor i have tried a lot of ways to cook for cheap .
lasagna is delicious . i have been testing different foods on my trip .	i love to make food i am going to cook right now .
hmmm . . . i would like to try that as well .	lol , i am not sure , but it sure is good . the best in the whole world .
currently docked at the isle of man .	i am in florida but i travel to india frequently . you ?
you should rent out my yacht when you are ready to travel .	i live on a yacht off catalina island . where do you live ?
pets are welcome . hope they do not get sea sick though !	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
great . i have a few minutes until i go to work at the supermarket .	i am doing well . where are you from ?
you are a kind person . what state to you live in . i am from ohio .	i bet that will help lots of people in the world .
i would like to see new york . i have never travel out of ohio .	i agree with that , i have never been there .
i have a pet cat named spook and i do not have a pet sitter .	i do not travel but i want to .
this is a very strange coincidence .	i do not think a cat would be a good pet for me .
i love string instruments . such beautiful music .	she does like pizza . i could set you up
i am hungry . i want to get lost in a pizza with black olives right now .	still be in music somehow some way .
too much cheese for you ?	kale is very nasty ! i like pizza
hi i am a pretty outdoorsy person	hey , i am good you ?
yeah that is smart i do a lot of kayaking	what do you study ?
i am still in school at graduate school	i am a college student and a writer . what about you ?
i am studying science cause i love nature	i work in education .
yeah its great i am also into animals	i study in college p
i work with dogs so i guess those are my faves	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
i like to camp a lot and test my survival skills	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
that is nice do you compete a lot	i like to lick the tires
i am fantastic , how are you doing ? ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
coffee is tasty , but i am a chocolate bar lover myself .	hello i am fine and you ?
i enjoy playing ping pong ! what do you like to do for fun ?	i play the guitar in a band . and you ?
exciting ! how do you feel about electricity ?	i go geocaching . what do you like to do ?
my father has taught me a lot about it , he is an electrician .	oh really ? i do not know much about it
brown like chocolate of course ! do you speak other languages ?	haha right ! it is a great color .
to bad , we could be chatting in chinese !	mandarin . china will own the 21st century
no , i learned at home .	obviously , 300 languages is amazing ! ! did you learn chinese i assume ?
hi i love watching tv you ?	i like reading and watching crappy tv
that sound like alot of fun i go to the gym alot .	we both like the outdoors then ! i like working out at the park too .
that is cool i love animals .	www ! i love animals . pup for me named jack .
i do work at home on the phone .	i like to work on cars and to travel
i drive a bmw i like spending money on it .	a smart car . gotta save the environment !
that is cool i like green .	do you watch a lot of tv ?
i like all of them but mostly treadmill .	i go to the gym and dance .
that sounds really interesting . i have climbed a wall before it is not easy .	that is good to stay in shape .
hello , do you like classic cars ?	good afternoon ! how are you today ?
i drive classic mustangs , they are amazing .	yeah , and drive a refurbished mustang
i have dogs , two of them . sadie and isabel .	i love dogs , i have two of them .
rabbits are so fluffy . i would love to have one .	i do not have any animals , but i like them . what is your favorite animal ?
does he do any tricks ? do you walk him like a dog ?	he is such an awesome artist .
i have seen some that are , like the pot bellied pigs .	i do not listen to him , i am into country concerts .
my cousin feeds his bacon .	dogs are awesome . i think a sausage and egg burrito sounds good today lol
the pig likes it . they eat snakes too .	overrated imo you gotta go bacon honestly
no kidding ! i am in it ! same gig for 15 years !	what company do you work for ?
i enjoy country like any real man .	no not really i like all music .
florida . i own a home there . 2 kids , a dog a lady .	i live in southern california , right near the ocean .
well i hope you namaste here ! get it ?	i have never been to india , what is it like there
i do not share this , but i like to knit .	i do not work , just travel .
and you ? what do you do ?	haha very true ! what are some of your hobbies ?
do you have any kids ?	i love music ! i listen to almost all music from each genre out there . you ?
no , but i have been in the caribbean .	i do travel some i go to india quite a bit .
hope you are having a good evening . where are you from	hi ruth , my name is sky and i love to find new uses for old things
are you homesick or enjoying your experience	i am from cali , have you ever been ?
i am sure you are busy . do you feel your work is your true calling ?	i think so ! i stay busy .
i love music . have you enjoyed tom petty ? so sad about his passing	no not really i like all music .
congratulations on your wedding . how long have you known your partner ?	i went to his concert last year ! he is great !
i wish you all the best . do you have great conversation	that is a long time . was he falsely accused ?
i am from west virginia usa . are you going to have a big wedding ?	i am from ohio , you ?
yes i am a huge fan	yes ! i love movies about dogs ! do you like dogs ?
friday the 13th and wrong turn . you ?	no , more of a drama . one of the greatest films of all time .
cool . . . when i have a break from my horse farm i like to watch movies	well if you love horror novels , that is a total must
i own a ranch and i am in law school	i ride horses and and breed cattle
just my second , it will all be worth it though	i am just a student currently but hoping to study law as well .
hard work pays off . i hope he is successful after he graduates	i hope to have kids some day , i just graduated school
you seem like a really cool dad	you will have to take your time to be able to succeed
you are very welcome and thanks	my best friend calden wants to be a lawyer someday .
hello , just came back from my trip to europe . i go there twice a year ! you ?	hello what are you cooking for dinner ?
do you like cooking ? i always cook paella and fish and chips ! i love them !	i am in between places and i travel overseas a lot , you ?
well cooking is like an art , i majored art in college and it is really exciting !	i love to cook and yes i attended college . you sing ?
have you heard of christopher columbus ? i am a descendant of his family !	cooking is one of my hobbies is cooking is salad the only thing you like .
salad are a great way to keep your weight !	you do not like salads ? i am so hungry !
yeah i usually visit history museums when i go to europe .	you should think about food all the time like me . it will make you learn to cook
yeah they got a lot of great looking clothes !	visiting museums is my thing
not bad . lucky to have computer time here .	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
nothing since i got locked up . what do you do ?	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
i should do that . need to find volunteer work when i get out .	i am a teacher and a mom .
shoplifting . i have a month left .	yes but my dads incarcerated which makes things tough
not sure . have any ideas ?	i think i could help people like my mom does .
my mom always brings that up . she is visiting tomorrow .	no idea . i wish i had a good plan .
not sure anymore . the same things do not sound good . getting old .	i like all kinds of food , not cafeteria food .
i am 56 years old and i am a housekeeper	i do not know anything about you actually , any hobbies ?
yes , i love painting , i used to be a painter , but i went to housekeeping	other than those things , not much ! you ?
i love hearing the violin , and the guitar is kind of cool as well	oh okay . you paint or draw ?
no , i used to play tennis , but not anymore	not professionally , but i play . do you do any sports ?
i sprained my ankle and i do not want it happening again	i have always wanted to play but could never get it
i know that has to be fun , how do you win against your opponents ?	outdoor painting ? yes that would be awful
that is understandable , do you have any children ?	sorry , but have you ever won more than that amount you lost ?
yes , as a matter of fact , i have two grown children , but they never come to visit	yes i have one . she is two .
i am well . how about yourself ?	hi . i am good . you ?
me too ! i try to make it as often as possible . i work a lot .	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
i produce music for rap artists mainly .	i am a freelance artist .
i do not get a lot of promo gear .	yep . i need to get a pair myself .
add a man bun and my 2015 honda civic and you have me	definitely keep the pants on for those discussions . what hobbies do you have ?
only if you love pizza as much as i do .	do you like to play video games ?
good thing they make stretchy skinny jeans ; leggings are stretchy too !	i like the rap music do you ?
she is not mean skinny jean . she just wanted a taste . new song	exactly . haha i should look into that
cool . i have a motorbike . do you drive ?	is that even a legal wage ?
oh , i always wear a helmet to protect my head . what do you do for a living ?	i do not ! do you ?
i see , i waitress during the day to help supplement my income . do you like tanning	i manage a restaurant , and drive a nice looking car
i do not tan , i have very light skin with big brown eyes .	i do . i love it .
my motorbike is red with a blue stripe and shiny when i race !	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
i am sorry , what was that ?	i manage a restaurant , and drive a nice looking car
i love it , i love how shiny it is	bicycles , you can ride them everywhere , you know ?
yes i do , red is one of my favorite colors	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
nice , i am currently taking a break from working on my vintage car .	i am doing well , just listening to some music . what about you ?
sounds interesting ! i usually go to country music concerts on the weekends .	we have lots of weekend places to dance to country music here in pa .
that is funny , i have to vintage cars with radios set to my favorite music . country .	what kind of music do you like ? i love country .
that is funny . i could eat a donut while i work on my vintage cars .	oh yes . sounds like so much fun . ets eat donuts
i could drive you to get some in one of my two vintage mustangs .	oh yes . sounds like so much fun . ets eat donuts
sure , as long as you tell me all about donuts . you made me laugh so hard .	if we go on a road trip will you let me listen to country stations ?
sounds awesome . do you dress up for these events ?	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
just enjoying my amazing grandchildren , and the great weather .	not much how are you today ?
oh wow , i am old too . i do not even own a smartphone .	that is a lot of grandkids . expecting more ?
i do ! and , i still sew my clothes myself .	are you kidding ? of course not .
yes . i am now cancer free , and feeling great .	i am a loving mother and wife , with the most beautiful grandchildren .
that is wonderful for your age . i have a great retired life for sure .	its good to keep in shape , especially since it sounds like your job requires it .
i spend time with my husband , and we travel . you ?	i love taking care of people , something in that field . you ?
at 100 ! that is very impressive !	i do not drink , my kids would be sad . i smoke though .
whatever works . maybe i will take some tips from you .	do you have any grandchildren ?
hi ! great thanks . just taking a bath . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
it is worth it though , just meditate . how old are you ?	hi ! i am doing alright , how about you ?
me too , i do not drink or smoke . i am 35 .	i am 26 and she is 22 . only one i got but she cant cook .
my dogs do not speak either , perhaps they are buddhist too ?	its ok . you need to eat ! kind of dogs do you have ?
yes huskies are always catholic . i really like my foamy baths .	my pets are two dogs .
yes , they are hard workers though . my dogs are lazy , both of them .	my dogs are actually wolves .
are you married ? i am not .	i love dogs , i have two of them .
ok , i hope to be someday . i am already 35 .	i am single no dating right now .
hi ! me , too ! i made it to the court at homecoming ! i was queen !	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
i would , but i am too busy studying . i am a totally a student , you know !	are you in school presently ?
i am on the track team in high school . i want to run a big race !	how old are you ! i graduated high school not too long ago .
awesome ! i am going to college to become a physical therapist .	lol they actually make medicine for that ?
we should meet sometime ! after college !	you make me want to go back to college . i totally get it now .
are you still in high school ?	i wish you the best in achieving that goal !
i thought you worked at bk ?	i am in school still .
oh , well . i do drama in my life , too !	nope , never learned . i keep busy though !
hello , i am a 20 year old man , i work in it . do you like dogs ?	i love to play with my dogs !
i love tea , do you enjoy sports at all ?	haha . what does your company make do ?
yes are there any books that you would recommend ?	oh yes , i love reading . you ?
are you religious at all ? i am very open minded to others beliefs	no plot to take over the world books , huh ?
are you excited for halloween ? i have been watching so many spooky movies	yes i totally agree with you .
i like the new it movie , what movies do you enjoy ?	i like thrillers and action movies
i have never seen that movie , do you enjoy food ?	i like thrillers and action movies
yeah , animals are real good .	hello , how are you ? i am good , thanks .
i love canines . and uh , tacos i just like	my pets are two dogs .
you need to respond faster .	how many pets do you have ?
of four siblings , one is male and three are female	i do not understand the question .
tell me more about that	do you have an siblings ? i have 3 .
wow what a flavor ! i love to listen to you	chocolate milk is delicious is not it ! ?
helps it to stay cold i bet . do you think woody allen is innocent ?	i like it but not in the winter
innocent of not making movies that i do not hate , lol	i am not sure i do not think so .
i am and how are you ?	i hope so , but i do not know , how are you today ?
little bit if everywhere being a army brat	i am ok , just ate dinner .
i am in the army	yes , maybe i will get the chance next year .
are you a really good boarder ?	what are you going to school for ?
are you still in school ?	yeah of course . that was highschool . lol
absolutely i never finished highschool sadly	i am in school still .
kind of a family tradition the army thing	but the cost of school is so high .
i am cooking shawarma right now so i cant	yeah of course . that was highschool . lol
good . just hanging out listen to country music . how about you ?	good thanks and you today ?
do you play any instruments ?	how great are you , 1 10 , 10 being absolute greatness ? also , favorite music genre ?
i do ! i love playing the guitar . what else do you do ?	no , but i like to play guitar . do you like music ?
i got my first guitar when i was three . i would have loved a pink one	pink is a great color . sine it is fun
do you have a job ?	you should not drink a lot , its bad for you
i sing in a country music bank	yes i love this industry
i do . but i grew up in the music industry	i travel . to foreign countries mostly .
it was exciting with all the travel and music	what would you say your favorite band is ?
i am great , how are you today ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
wow , i am 25 , and i love to read , 20 books this year .	i am 38 lol . do you have any kids ?
i eat kosher so maybe i will live to be 100	that is a big difference ! do you get a lot of time to read ?
great ! my second job is being a stunt double , no broken bones ever .	that is wonderful you are healthy and will have long life .
lol , i was raised by a single parent , how about you ?	yea , i agree i drink wine every night but just one glass .
yes i like to dance , but i have not tried it in the moonlight .	no , i do not . i never had much of an opportunity to do so .
sounds like you are a fun person	it sure can lift your spirits .
what else do you like to do for fun ?	haha . not in a bad way .
singing songs from frozen with my mommy . what are you doing ?	not much how are you today ?
do you like mickey mouse ?	stay at home and watch the kids . you ?
i get to see him every year at disney world !	no it is just for fun . sometimes we compete in disney .
i do not understand retire .	i love going to walt disney world every year
i love being in the third grade . i love the library !	i so agree ! with retirement you will get to do so much !
a teacher , or maybe a librarian . do you like being a librarian ?	yes , i do . and thanks ! what do you want to do when you grow up ?
have you read little house on the prairie ?	of course . i cannot decide whether to read or watch a disney movie .
my mom is reading it to me , i like laura .	org i love disney !
hi i am good you ? i tend to keep to myself	hi ! ! ! i am wonderful . and yourself ?
i am currently working on a robot that is a body double of myself .	oh , does it help keep you in shape ?
do you have any allergies ? i have one to water .	hmm . . . maybe i should look into that . i need a hobby now that i am not working .
electrician have a very dangerous job .	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
i absolutely love country music i listen to it while i work as well .	i also enjoy listening to country music .
i write twitches for a living .	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
what do you like to do in your free time	it can be . not much to write about though .
i like to relax at the beach with a good book .	i love to read , what about you ?
i am todd hicks . it is good to meet you .	hello ho ware you today
i work on a freelance basis as an author , blogger and affiliate marketer . and you ?	i am a student from cali
do you grow crops too ?	i am full time a taxidermist and then the rest of the time i am with the kids .
no , i am single . are you single or are you married ?	not married i live at home with 2 siblings .
have you ever been to italy ?	we are still married . i guess he just ha other interests .
no . i would like to go there someday though .	i love to travel everywhere ! where have you been ?
it is nice that you had a good time .	was it nice growing up in spain ?
hello yesterday was my 18th birthday .	maybe fishing , i can meet you halfway
do you like fish i really like my pet fish .	i do not think so .
i have had a rough couple of months boyfriend break up blues .	i do not think you would like fish .
he was average he did not like my favorite color orange .	he died last year .
doing okay now just living life .	i am still bitter about my past break up , i hope he dies .
why not i am up for whatever .	yes . you will be normal again .
never my ocd would not let me so keep practicing .	have you tried to do anything to fix that ?
lol i am not . . been with the same woman 6 years and she spends alot	no . like me , they are into gaming .
oh well i am sorry to hear that . do you work	that is why i am a gamer .
i would love to work from home . . doing what i am not sure	i work online because of having epilepsy .
i love roleplaying in games on the internet	i work online as a professional gamer , which has been a great career
i used to love animals , but hated vet school	do you play games or work ?
i have a dog , he is super cool . . getting old though	no , i do not have any pets .
he plays dead . . i am worried one day he will not be playing anymore	he seems to think so . i do not work outside the home .
a pitbull , such pretty dogs	well i am a video game character online which is fun . you ?
doing well , just singing along to the frozen movie . how are you ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
that is awesome . i am in third grade so i do not go to concerts yet .	sound of music ? good movie
that is cool ! do you ever go to disney ? i go every year !	i thought you were still in elementary school
mickey is my favorite ! you should definitely go . epcot is educational too !	each year i go to disney world
other than disney , you can find me on the playground with my friends .	that is funny ! i have drawn almost all disney characters from the movies
i enjoy collecting disney movies , and singing along to them .	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
what is your favorite movie ?	it s my first year . i really like to watch disney princess movies
white house ? i know a little spanish .	i love watching disney movies !
hi jennifer ! it is very nice to meet you . i am andie .	hello ! my name is ayako . just hanging out with my cats all over me . . you ?
yes i work . i am in the construction business , i mainly build houses . what about you ?	i am a freelance artist .
that is wonderful . do you have any pets ?	i like lots of things but am busy with school .
i have five cats . i am a cat person , they are so special to me !	yes , i have 3 cats and they are so adorable
oh yes . i always knew i would be a crazy old cat lady .	they are great and friendly cats .
no , i have never found love . men always want me to choose between them or the cats .	yes . my family owns one and i work on it .
i could not agree more ! i miss my dad , the best man i know .	does your cat also have a very set mind ?
when i was 16 . luckily , he taught me everything i know about construction .	well , she passed away , unfortunately .
hi 23 and i enjoy food a lot	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
even though i like to cook i am not great at it .	well , currently i work as a personal chef .
i own a yacht but also rent it out	i once took a year off of work and sailed around the world . it was amazing !
that is awesome ! i also grave and have done it for years	so your boat will sink ?
i do i play soccer from time to time	no , my cooking is vet good also , i cook nicely !
i can understand that , my mom gets annoyed pretty quick	soccer is what my son does , i just do the driving . lol
well that is good , but can you handle your nagging wife	doe she make you pay any rent ?
my mom does , it can be so annoying	i mean she should your her mom right ?
hello , and i have not been outside of the us	yes , i try to go most sundays .
italy sounds nice , i want to travel the world myself	i love cooking big italian meals after church on sunday .
puerto rico , london , i heard they were amazing places	that would be great ! as long as you are in the uk , i have never left the country haha
i mean same here tax time is the best time to travel really	so what will money do for you when you die ?
only birds i work a lot to have any pets	i do not sadly and i cant afford to travel to see them either but i have pets
lol your cat must be black with scary eyes	i like to play sports an bake
i work as a chef at the sheraton hotel but the pay sucks	i do not work . i just bake and take care of my kids . . . you ?
ready for dec 16th to have my baby girl	yes i am in a band
well i worked with human services for 10 years , now i am a father who stays home .	oh well what grade are you in ? my son is in 9th grade .
my wife , my queen died . she was murdered . now my favorite moves are horror .	no , not famous . are you famous ?
my goal is raising my son , he is in junior high . he has been traumatized	its good to support childen in their goals .
i hope he is like his mother , i make him watch the horror movies with me .	i know he does . that is what helps me
my son , sometimes he reminds me of my dead wife and i wish he would go away	definitely . it sounds so neat ! i also watch a lot of horror movies .
hey ? want to go get lunch and make out or something ?	oh , who knows . he does not want to be responsible any longer .
i will bring my son he can watch and we will not tell your mom or dad	i would love that . tell me about your parents
hi . that is wonderful ! actually , i am pretty hungry for anything right now , burger or salad .	i am doing well . how about you ?
yum . will be ready to run again after i have my twins in 2 months .	i have two kids , so that takes up a lot of time .
all natural . . . second time . . . twins this time .	my kids just want me to make money lol
care for self first . i am a bank teller and just bought first home last year .	haha you are still young . the baby was just hungry .
haha . . . i have a toddler . . . worry about time and sleep more than carbon footprint	maybe one day you will change your mind about kids .
everyone is different . . . live life best we can and do what we can .	it can only improve our economy . its trickle up , not down .
recycle and be cleanly . . . everything in moderation	what shall we have to eat ?
sounds like a plan . . . days off are nice . . . back to work tomorrow	are you sick or just a health nut ?
i enjoy walking my dog what about you ?	i like working out and helping animals
i do not have much time for gardening with my ever growing family !	i love to play with my dogs !
i do not have that problem , i have a doctor for a husband	do you have a family ? a job ?
sounds fun i play tennis for a living	its just a hobby , but hopefully one day it will be a profession !
winning tournaments . keeps me fit as well so i can run up my 3 storey house	i do but not professionally just for fun .
do you hope to get your own place soon ? it is very expensive	true , where did you grow up ?
do you want children one day ? my family is growing all the time	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
i am ok , i think . taking it one day at a time .	i am good . where do you live ?
no , my pills make me hallucinate a bit . it is scary .	i think it is ok
antidepressants and others , better than my drinking used to be .	no , just sage plants and dried herbs . healthy things .
i was addicted to alcohol and my brain is damaged . i am paranoid too .	yeah , cannot blame them . all my problems are my fault .
it started out ok , on the farm . now i am in new york city .	that is why you desire to be controlled . let me control you person one .
raise cattle and drink . now i am so sad and delusional .	i actually work on the farm
sleeping , that is when i do not see demons . how about you	you could say i am addicted .
i see cars in my house when it is real bad . music is fun though .	i do not like music at all
great . my new husband and i are now homeowners . you a homeowner ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh okay . i teach in a school and pregnant with triplets . you have children ?	i also have three kids !
where you from ? i am from canada ? life here is different . you agree ?	no kids yet . but yes , i would love to have some someday .
oh okay . hmmm . you make your own sausage ?	me either its the last state i need to visit . and then its on to canada .
my stepdaughter loves german sausage . you sing or dance ? i do both .	yes , my wife makes a good venison burger .
wow ! i jumped off a porch once . what your fave dish ?	i also have three kids !
great . you ever tried it with tuna or do you even eat fish ?	yes . buns in the oven . you met my 3 children ?
great ! i am larry here . a chef 80 of the time . . . on my pontoon 20	hello ! i am good and you ?
great dog . i am into comic books , but love dogs big dogs !	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
are you afraid of spiders then ? spiderman is my fav comic book	crabs are further north but crunch crab cakes are sooo good !
i guess blue , the color of crystal clear water on the lake	i love the color black
wow ! my brothers built stock cars until an accident that killed a friend .	yeah ! cooking is a passion of mine , i do it all the time for my family
i am head chef at a popular restaurant chain	well , currently i work as a personal chef .
i have several specialty dishes , and my family comes by once in a while .	like a professional chef sort of thing ?
no . i am not married yet . almost engaged once . how about you ?	no i do not have kids
hey girl , chelsea here . olympic gold medal holder . sorry about your parents !	hello . how are you today ?
gymnastics ! bk is good , but my fave is italian .	i was actually a champion at it
oh girl , its not really worth it . i train so hard for what ? a necklace , basically !	right ? perfect meal after a hard workout !
they are just trying to take care of you !	yes ! that would be perfect for me ! what is your favorite color ?
do it , girl ! get that independence going !	they are a lot of work , but so worth it !
yeah , but this is not my true passion . i really just want to collect yellow items	haha good , i hope so ! maybe one day i will try again !
flowers , rain boots , cheeses , you name it !	maybe yellow highlights over brown base !
hello , i love to walk my dog and go to church events	i love dogs what kind do you have
so am i ! what do you do for work ?	i have two dogs right now
i am a teacher . maybe you are one of my students	i work part time as a music teacher . you ?
i like to wear skinny jeans too , except not for church every sunday .	a band ? school is stressing me out right now so maybe ?
you do sound familiar . you always sit in the fri	yes , i think that i do .
you are . you should come with me next time i walk my dog	i am a student right now but hope to finish soon and get a job .
it is very important for us girls to stay in shape	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
the city is where i live now , i hate taking so many medications	oh not that must hurt .
okay , how you deal with it ? i see things sometimes . . .	is the brain damage bad ?
i see , this is something new to me , maybe the alcohol is getting into me	it lets you pretend to be a child that is a good thing
do you like the farm ? i grew up there	i kind of want to get drunk .
why would you want to do that at the same time ?	we have maybe 2 winery nearby but boston is mainly beer friendly
nope , tell me more about it .	they think it will corrupt me or some stupid thing .
what is your powers exactly ?	they think it will corrupt me or some stupid thing .
oh no . . . please do not say stuff like that	i do not get what you meant far as that but okay , that is how i eat .
i am ok , drinking a lot of coffee , how about you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
where are you all going to ?	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
i am getting ready to go mountain biking . it is fun !	i am going to do that one day , when i figure out where i want to go
i love ice cream too , but mostly coffee flavor .	well we do go for ice cream at the park on some days .
well , i do not drink alcohol , so coffee and diet soda . what about you ?	i brew beer and make my own coffee .
ah . so is my dad , he worked construction , he is the same .	i drink water most of the time .
she is the greatest mom , i saw her yesterday . do you see your mom ?	she is a wonderful woman . very friendly . do you ride bicycles ?
oh , i am so sorry . i am lucky to still have mine .	she had cancer . she passed away .
great ! you ? what do you do ?	hello i am fine and you
i work as a custodian , to pay bills . i am also a musician	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
rock ! i hope to make it big ! i pay the piano and guitar .	anything with good music because i love all kinds of music
awesome ! does she sing too ? i sing !	my daughter plays the sax and several other instruments .
are you supportive of her dream ? my parents are not .	my oldest child is like that . i always have to help him out .
oh he is adopted ? how nice !	how nice of your parents !
law enforcement work is respectable work . you should be proud !	he is such an awesome artist .
just playing the guitar , piano and singing . i like to color too !	i do , i also enjoy drawing .
hello ! i am a super fun girl and i love everything disney . how about you ?	hi , i am in the 3rd grade
cool ! i love to go to disney world instead of the beach . i attend an elementary school .	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
cook elementary . what is your favorite character from frozen ?	yeah of course , i am only in 3rd grade though .
i love anna the best ! she has really cool hair and gets to kiss kristoff lol .	the little mermaid . ariel is my favorite disney princess .
i like the frozen songs best . how old are you ?	i love music as well !
eight and a half ! ! ! are you married ?	i am in third grade you
oh how nice ! i hope to have a husband some day too .	i am not . currently single . and you ?
maybe i will meet him at disney world ! 3	i sure hope so ! maybe soon .
hi . good . watching sports on tv . love it !	good , thank you for asking ! you ?
it . been working in the industry for 15 years now . where do you work ?	i like watching movies and tv
oh no . i live in florida . you could come and stay at my house .	haha right jobs are important . they must also love dogs , i have 2 .
sounds like fun . i am afraid of heights so are my dogs .	i cant live without my dogs . they are my babies .
my children , sports , not time for much else .	i love to work out and play sports
probably not . if the dog likes you , you are all good .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
well , as long as the hurricanes stay away , i am happy . how about for you ?	the weather is lovely ! what are your hobbies ?
the windy city . yeah , it is definitely warmer in florida .	that is true . i am just use to florida weather
fantastic just got home from a wonderful restaurant	hi there , i am doing great thanks . where are you from ?
fantastic , it was a new place in japan , i have been here a week ,	hi ! doing great ! looking restaurant options for tonight . i have been everywhere pretty much .
oh ? i was just in paris , have you been there ? it is beautiful !	oh i love japan . i am in a small city wish i could travel .
in japan ? i might get a home some day , but for now i am traveling the world	i live in hawaii . it is gorgeous ! !
that is really cool ! , do you cook at home or go out to eat ?	i can only imagine . right now i travel too much to have any .
i love to cook , but i tend to burn things . do you enjoy the ocean ?	i love to cook just about anything
i have a yacht but since i am not home i rent it out	i try to . i can only travel really during the summer since i am in school
hi . everything is going well on this end .	yeah i am good and you ?
i am from detroit , mi . what do you like to do for fun ?	i am from washington , dc .
that is interesting . i would consider myself a gamer .	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
oh really ? what kind ? i love fps . my fav is cod .	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
that is some heavy stuff . i am glad you are safe	i like sims and call of duty or fallout .
on the weekend , i get together with friends and do live action roleplaying	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
yeah it is fun but a lot of work .	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
what are hats ? the wifey left me and stole my children .	how many children do you have ?
because i am fat and depressed . working at a nursing home does that to me .	lol ! that made me laugh so hard .
i did not qualify for the olympics because god does not exist	i bet that is ! lucky you .
winter because i become fatter and have an excuse to be on facebook all the time .	winter is better for outdoor sports .
why is that ? i would like to go to a buffet today .	oh i know that , do you have any kids ?
do you have a fireplace ?	nothing wrong with that . i love to eat too lol
oh i love cats . what kind of cats ?	i cannot because i have kids and am married .
do you give them catnip ?	your cats are mean ? do they harm your two children ?
hi , i also like rap music . mostly somalian rap .	i like all music and love to sing and sometimes i like to rap too .
i got a cat named ziggy when i moved to the united states . he likes reggae music .	oh so you did not meet him over here . does he have an accent ?
we should have them meet at a cat park so they can have a rap battle .	do you have animals ? i have 1 dog , 1 cat . cat is bigger than dog .
that sounds good . i could pick them up next week in my 1976 chevy impala .	yes and the cat and dog will get along . which do u like ?
i love pizza too ! that was the first food i ate when i moved from somalia .	i would . i love the pizza !
yes i am . my aunt helped me escape somalia when i was thirteen years old .	i am from the great us of a
thank you . where are you from ?	thank you so much . i hope i do well in my marriage .
what part of the world is bratislava ?	i live in maryland but was born in india
how do you feel about video games ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
they are not really comparable .	what game are you playing ?
i use to work with animals but i hated it so i am job searching .	i work for a hospital as a nurse . you ?
i am sorry to hear that . maybe you should try getting back out there	why did she leave you ?
so what ? fat people deserve love too .	well maybe not with this , i play games to forget about it
your happiness is in your control .	i agree . motivation is if you are fat .
i play video games . would love to make a living out of it	that is why i am a gamer .
it is my favorite past time	i would rather play video games
my parents are on my back again . i cant stand it . you ?	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
that makes you , what ? 8 ? 9 ?	i am not in school are you
that makes me 10 years older than you . my parents still treat me like i am 9	well seriously one is 22 and the other is 18 lol
mickey mouse is cool , but i like scooby doo a lot	yes i like dora the explorer and old bugs bunny cartoons .
that is great . those guys are such weirdos .	i rather see it in a cartoon lol i know that is fake
i work part time at burger king . i just like hanging with my friends .	i also hang out with friends .
sounds like fun . i did those things at your age . you have a favorite book ?	what do you do for fun ? i enjoy hanging out with my friends .
pretty advanced for your age . awesome .	i read the very first one back in the day . but never read the rest
hello , getting ready to start baking for the bake sale .	hello i am fine , just neet to cut down only eating
it is . for the band . please come , there are healthy options .	no , i do not make enough money .
so am i , lol . i am always getting my hair and nails done .	absolutely ! we need all of the help we can get .
i do not . i have a wonderful backyard with a lot of privacy .	yes i do . i actually really enjoy it .
that is awful . i would not like that at all .	i wish you all the best ! i hope it runs in the family !
that would be awful . you really should move .	i can understand that . it is not for everyone .
i would be saving all i could	what shall that be ? i will save my money and live in a tiny house .
clothes are a weakness of mine as well .	so what will money do for you when you die ?
i am fine from alabama , enjoying my tacos and brother .	hello i am fine and you ?
oh yea ? i am liking my tacos then .	do you have any pets ? i have a dog .
oh darn . how many siblings do you have ?	i do not like tacos i can tell you that
i happen to have three . and a brother . go figure .	you have a big family . it is just my huband , me , and my dog lobo
no no bike . in all labor there is profit , so i guess i could get one .	yes i have 2 dogs .
in the multitude of counselors there is safety . my lovely dog would run behind me .	i am sure its nice . i will take that into consideration .
what i mean is , i value your opinion . you could have a taco .	do you have brothers and sisters also ?
i think alabama can help you with your fix , where i live .	i am sure its nice . i will take that into consideration .
i am alright , my like has not been the best recently . how are you ?	hi ! great thanks , and yours ?
i work in the music industry , help artists create amazing albums . what do you do ?	i am a freelance artist .
that sounds fun ! where do you live ?	now i paint houses , but now for long .
california , not my favorite place but that is alright	i am in texas actually !
its a nice place , just not very many job opportunities out here for me anymore	i live in southern california
very true , just hope the fires in the area do not burn my house down	i am an artist , but it is still very hard . . . especially in la
pretty awful at the moment , super smoky air	no i am safe out here in california .
not at all , well enough about me , what do you do for fun ?	i live in california it is always hot here .
sounds fun , one of my hobbies is mountain biking .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i love dogs , coffee is also something i love !	any other hobbies ? other interests ?
i grew up in a large family , my father worked in construction , how about you ?	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
i do not drink , and i loathe the color pink , hate it .	i brew beer and make my own coffee .
i do , love reading , one of my favorite things to do .	i love to read . what about you ?
i am not married and no kids , but would like a family one day , you ?	i love to read . what about you ?
must get lonely , i like people around and noise .	yes very large family . people everywhere
sounds spooky but fun ! any mean ones ?	i have never had coffee with alcohol in it . what do you do for work ?
no . i sing country music . no kids yet .	yes , i am .
i would like to go on tour with the rascal flats .	are you married ? any kids ?
i thought tom cochran wrote that .	yes , never a dull moment !
i used to spend summers at national parks . that is where i learned guitar at age 3	do you work ? i make money that i have not told anyone about .
we did campfire sing a longs . my parents taught me on a ukulele first	cool ! do you own it ? or just manage ?
i am trying to be vegan . it is not easy though .	i do not know how , when did yo learn
what about lab grown meat ? would that make it easy to give up real meat ?	i would be a vegan too , but pork just tastes too good to me .
it is supposed to be exactly like the real thing . not sure how that is possible though	well meat can be part of a healthy diet , but if it works for you
i used to teach gym retired now , grew up poor	i like exercise , you should try it
just watched a war documentary while eating a cheese burger	wow do you like cheese
yeah i agree , rich in heart	i like to eat cheeseburgers
true bad for you , good stuff .	i love to volunteer and help people
yeah even with the fat on them ?	really i just like burgers
in real life , i am a music professor and i do help the homeless	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
oh oh well hmmm i guess okay ?	i have prove it to myself because before i was really fat .
i enjoy doing amazon work when i am laying around	helping people , but that is pretty much all i got about myself .
i am in chicago . where are you ?	hey there , i am doing pretty well , you ?
yes , but i am allergic to water . this is very unfortunate .	i am in cali . . . have you ever been ?
i do not go outside much . i stay clean this way .	yes that a good job i love ark , keep it up .
i only stream to my 100 , 000 subscribers on twitch . i do not play real sports	you should try skateboarding , it could help you lose weight .
since i helped make starcraft , my name was already out there . 6 months .	i do not remember it was so long ago lol
designed , yes . now i am making a robot to be a body double of myself .	if only . it is an awesome game .
indeed , but it is still a prototype	no . sounds like a monster .
usually older generation , like ps1 and super nintendo . do you watch twitch ?	rpg games on the computer and tabletop games with my friends , and you ?
hello , i am feeling fit since i visited the gym today ! how are you ?	i am great , just got done with my daily workout . u ?
after rowing and running on the treadmill , i am pretty hungry . do you work out ?	i am getting ready to exercise .
i enjoy a great meal , but usually just eat when there is nothing else to do . haha	i like to cook do you ?
green , and it shows with my bright green crew cut ! what is yours ?	it is my favorite color . what is yours
nice . is summer your favorite season ? my two huskies are not a fan of the heat .	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
waffles are my main reason for hitting the gym ! you are a person a varied interests !	yes ! they are my favorite .
that is great ! what are your hobbies other than cooking ?	i love to play with my dogs !
have not doe that since i was a kid , but was always afraid of lightening ! haha	i love to paint , draw , anything artsy really . what do you like to cook ?
great , just got home from roleplaying as my favorite character . you ?	i am good , playing some video games right now
awesome . i am seeing insane clown posse tomorrow in my ford pinto !	i am fine , and you ? do you like musicians ? i am one .
congratulations ! if you are bored , come over and play call of duty and eat donuts !	i like to drive my car around . unfortunately i just leased it out
like what ? i make vegan donuts ! do you play video games ?	i try to eat healthy .
would you try vegan donuts ? they are all natural !	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
perfect . do you exercise ? i pretend to be different characters .	haha i would like to see you try !
its called live action roleplaying	yea i do . as much as role playing
probably . mine do . what other activities do you do ?	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
when ? when not at my practice i go to the park .	so you work as a doctor ?
wow , interesting are you any good ?	i am too busy , you know that . my kid .
sorry to hear that , you should watch friday	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
i would love to see you play	well maybe he just had an aptitude for it .
no , i am unable to travel to the moon . i have to work	i would love that and so would my daughter . its just her and i
please do , then i can consider that	oh okay i see , well keep pushing you will get there
that is a relief ! no more patient complaints	there is good money in it and its a passion of mine so worth it
you will have to teach me , i never played much	i hope you get paid lots of money
well hiking in spring time is my favorite	i like to hike and camp out
o ok i work out with my lab named trooper as well	what do you do outdoors ?
mechanical engineer for chevy and nissan	i work as a technician
wow is it real or acted out	i am a scientist . what about you ?
o ok wow is that what you always wanted to be ?	yeah , its hilarious . sometimes hard to watch .
i am too shy to be in the spotlight but i am glad you like it	yeah it is not something i want to do .
yea very much i know i am able to provide good quality car	yes but i prefer to be in nature . whats your hobby ?
yea i have always liked it a lot . what is your favorite food ?	yes i do . i am not good at doing math .
hello . well , i love horses .	i am well . so , tell me about yourself .
what do you like to do ?	you should take the horses !
i am working on going into law .	i like to read . i am a student .
that sounds really interesting . how is that business ?	i am still in college , going to be a lawyer one day .
that is great . i would figure that you would have a lot of injuries .	i have been doing it for years . how long have you been in the business ?
i bet that does work .	you just stay on the farm ?
i like to ride horses and be on a farm .	i love to ride horses .
it sure is . i would like to see more of the city though .	i have been working as a lawyer for 15 years now .
not bad excited to chat i lack friends	hello ! i am good and you ?
that is not good are you doing ok ?	that is very young , but is a hurt that does not go away no matter how old
i am sorry what color are your eyes mine are blue and i am a redhead	doing good . how old are you
that is so cool that we have it common	are you in school i am in the 10th grade
that sounds pretty serious glad youre ok	have you tried to do anything to fix that ?
well i am glad you got it	i understand that i am saving for surgery
awesome glad youre doing better i am not excited for school tomorrow	org that is really bad for you
that is very strange indeed	what do you want to do when you finish school
eh nothing much just a woman who is 56 years of age trying to have fun .	i am doing great how about yu ?
women can hurt you easily especially the pretty ones , like i was back in the day .	that is true . are you married ? i am not .
i used to spend money too when i was a painter , but now i just do housekeeping .	ha . . . now that is funny . let me ask do you still love her ?
yeah , i am going insane , i keep fantasizing about controlling the world .	well since she retired she is been staying in my guesthouse .
you should , if you got the money .	i would do that too if i was retired . it is a wonderful thing
yeah i bet you do , i used to make a lot selling my paintings	maybe i should invest in one then !
i need a car actually , do you have one for sale ?	well then you would be good at publishing . i paint pictures for fun .
okay i will drop by and check them out ! thanks !	y yeah i just bought one too
hi there . i am coming from my snack shop in new york . you ?	hello there friend . how are you today ? i am well .
nice . get acquainted with our culture . you like taylor swift ? i love and met her !	hi how is your weekend going ?
nice . she has nice hair style and color . mine is short , brown and curly .	do you drive a car ?
cool ! do you own a car ? i am trying to sell my nissan pathfinder . interested ?	where is your road trip destination today ?
seriously ? i thought it was legally required to learn how to swim in germany	yes , i like swimming . what is you favorite hobby ?
oh , i see . what state are you in ?	risky business all the time !
nice . visit key west sooner than later !	in florida , i live right on the water .
mostly american snacks . the same ones you can find at a 7 11	everything ! you name it , i cook it . you ?
nice ! my boyfriend and i will be moving in together	habeas espanol ? yo , tambien . great , and you ?
we just bought an apartment , i teach elementary school .	i am a teacher , but i do not make a lot of money .
nice ! i speak three language fluently english , spanish , and french	ooh . i would probably donate money to the school where i teach . i love my job !
what is your fave color i like the colors red and silver	i hope to be a teacher in the future . you teach ?
well that is pretty cool .	i love the color red .
it is close to philadelphia , pa	i am in new york
well outskirts of the city	i am hoping to get a job teaching elementary school kids here
i think that will be great my boyfriend would not mind	yes the world . i will teach this to my students when i am an english teacher
good . enjoying the park today . how about you ?	i am good just watching a movie
no , just walking for exercise and then going to see friday at the cinema .	no not at all it is very relaxing .
be careful on slippery roads . i am looking to move out west soon	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
near ca . i am applying for jobs in the south at hospitals .	walked right into that one , right ?
yes , what do you do ?	yes work at a hospital as a doctor .
interesting . school is very expensive . i have a lot of loans i am paying back	i am a vet tech . its fun .
i have an electric car .	it is blue , what do you do for a living ?
more charging stations are being installed lately	yeah , it helps with the bills . what do you do for fun ?
not sure if you knew this , but i love chocolate !	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
really ? i can never tell the difference	i like chinese , you can get it delivered
i suppose . . . i prefer something with more bass lol	ah , music has always helped me see the finer things in life , would not you agree ?
purple . the same as my ping pong table . . . do you play ?	pink because studies show it calms the mind . i need calm as a school psychologist .
same here . . . lights are out in my basement . . . need to call my father	yes , i do play music . i like classical the best . you ?
i would but i do not want to summon ghosts	i should , no one sees me here at home . any plans yourself today ?
what about aliens ? i heard they are already here !	i always use candles as i hate the look of artificial light .
so sad but i think you are right	if you believe in yourself , anything is possible !
why hello . tell me something about yourself there partner .	hi ! seen any good movies lately ?
i really enjoy shopping myself .	i bet you do not . who is your favorite ?
awesome i love a rolls royce ghost myself !	i would rather watch television .
my parents would not approve as it is they do not approve of my career .	i do not know any thing about that one !
nope , when i was 16 i was probably shopping for watches and shoes .	i have not even had a job yet . lol
i am so sorry to hear . that is a rough life .	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
awe , love . i wish i was there to hug you !	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
no , no , please do not so that please !	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
i am good . i am 46 . i am single with kids .	i am doing great how about yu ?
i have no pets . i am a recording engineer . i have a studio .	lucky you . if it were not for my pets i would go crazy .
you should always pick up your toys .	i bet you get a lot of good stuff .
that is true . so there you go .	do you want to have your own kids eventually ?
do you live with your mom and dad ?	kids make is all worth it , right ?
what do they do for work ?	sometimes i do , but they have their own lives .
oh very cool . teaching is important .	i am a artist . and what do you do ?
no , i live just with my kids .	yes i do . but no kids of my own yet .
hi , i make thirty dollars an hour walking dogs . you read alot ? i do .	hello ! i am good and you ?
sorry . i was painting my kayak . you sing or dance . i do both .	my work out buddy plays piano . he loves it . you should learn !
what is free time ? my mom and dad were street walkers .	hobby . what do you like to do in your spare time ?
great ! my family lived in a shelter before . we learned to survive there .	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
they were sex workers . i read psychology journals sometimes . do you ?	i love volunteering with the dogs at the local shelter .
yes i know ! i love kayaking to get away from everything . you kayak ?	false . there are two schools of thought .
wow that is great . i wish i could travel with my dog . you have dogs ?	i love it , but i also enjoy to kayaking when i am free . do you ?
alright , just finished a game of baseball . what about you ?	hi i am good and you ?
what kind of dance do you like ?	i am doing well , and you ? ahh a musician you are !
i like hip hop too ! my favorite is travis scott	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
did you enjoy the eighties in general or just the music ?	that reminds me of learning how to play music too . whats your favorite genre ?
i love the lite brite ! my older sister used to have one but i swallowed a piece	i like the similar times of dream works the classics
i just waited it out , mom is just a dentist but she said it would be fine	it was . i am used to it by now .
very true , everyone has an embarrassing story from childhood	sure but not your kids lol
my day was good , sort of chilly .	i am good . you ? just graduated
cool . i would love to do that . not many soup kitchens here in canada .	do you work ? i am in school .
that is great , my grandfather served in world war ii	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
mine either . i had to drop out of high school to help support the family .	that is an awesome career ! where did you grow up ?
great . do you cook a lot , with all your free time ?	well its one thing in your college years . but i am retired and its less risky .
i would love to go fishing but i know little about the sport .	i do not cook much . the guys and i eat out often .
i hope to try fishing one day .	i just love to play the sport
i would love to do that .	maybe we can going fishing and i can cook for you .
i am 56 years old and amazing . i am female and living it up .	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
do you like the world . i am trying to take it over .	i have got a daughter who loves the things . you take care , alright ?
i paint in my free time because my family will not visit .	do you have children ? i have 2 .
i think the mona lisa is cool art	that is great , maybe sometime i could paint a pic of your family , something i love .
i clean houses all day . people can be dirty .	mine is cheeseburgers . with extra pickles . yum !
i like raw steak and eggs . bring on the bacon .	it sure can lift your spirits .
when i take over the world i will grant bacon to everyone	bacon is good that is why i am too fat .
well before i turn 57 i will make it happen	i would rather you cook for me .
i love eating cheeseburgers and watching war documentaries	hi . i am good how about you ?
no ! i am actually a retired gym teacher but not married	no , i am not ! are you ?
mainly in the shower lol ! i like to volunteer at soup kitchens ! you ?	i do . . . still in the creative field . . . i sing in competitions and earn decent money performing .
my family was poor but now that i am older i can eat out as well !	i never eat at home .
oh that is really sad ! i am sorry	oh i am sorry to hear that she is sick .
that is okay ! that is why i volunteer now !	that is so sad , you really should get in the kitchen .
that is great ! i bet it will be a beautiful wedding	ha ! i see your getting married ! congrats !
hi ! no , maybe a new tractor for the farm .	hello i am good ? do you work
lol . the horses are my favorite	that is our business ? i am not sure how i can help you .
ditch one thing and get two others . haha	lol . i think that is great
i do not . i just help on the family farm . you ?	no i have no kids but i would like some
perfect . what kind of music do you like ?	do you think you will be a farmer for life ?
rock mostly . not much of a country fan .	i love pop , r b , oldies , pretty much everything but country , what about you ?
they do know how to rock !	country and rock grew up on the stuff
sold any cool cars lately ?	i agree lol , tell me more about you .
i am excellent , how old are you ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
oh ! i just turned 23 , i am visiting china for my birthday !	hmmm . old ? is 34 old ?
thank you ! do you travel ? i have been traveling since i was little . i love it .	i love to travel everywhere ! where have you been ?
that is awesome ! how is their food ? i love trying new food .	i love to travel ! i have been to europe and mexico . where do you travel ?
you should reach for that goal ! i love food ! i like cooking but i cant lol .	you should think about food all the time like me . it will make you learn to cook
yum ! ! what do you do for work ?	i would love to travel as well .
same here . i rent out my yacht on the weekends to help pay bills .	i am a freelance programmer . i make a lot of money to fund my traveling lifestyle
they really are . well its been a pleasure chatting with you , have a good night .	i do not make that much here either , but it pays the bills .
that is interesting . i am rather boring i have worked in it for 15 years	what jobs do you and your family hold ?
it is a good subject to study . you have to update your skills throughout your career though .	yes , it is . i quite enjoy it .
yes , i am an all american male , who enjoys sports . do you miss india ?	i live in the us , but india is my favorite place . i go there often
perhaps i will be able to visit one day , once my child is grown .	when you suppose to go india ?
that is great ! i take my dogs to the beach every morning .	i think you might be able to teach yourself in a shallow pool .
he is 4 , he will go to school next year . he also loves the ocean .	he was 10 . he was an amazing dog .
why is that ? kids can find interesting things no matter where they are .	when you suppose to go india ?
that is sad , i wish i could adopt children who need a good home .	money is not everything . do you have children ?
i am sure they are . kids who have difficult lives , learn very quickly .	i am sure it does not . i am sure they are proud of you regardless .
nothing much . i am just thinking about my ex boyfriend .	hi how is your weekend going ?
cool . sounds like a fun job . do you like it ?	oh , how do you feel about it ? 3 dogs
i do not have a job . i am a college student .	i like photography and hiking
just doing first year college . trying to figure it out .	in college . got a awful job myself .
i like going on long hikes and the beach .	i hike , read , craft . what about you ?
olympic hiking ? is that a sport ? if so , sign me up .	the sunsets were beautiful , the sky and the water would just glow this perfect shade of orange
what is your favorite sport ?	i bet . i love water sports .
do you swim in the ocean ?	i bet . i love water sports .
hello , how are you this evening ? are you on twitter ?	hello , and yes i would love that .
i love twitter and snap chat and instagram and facebook and reddit .	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
i have a large family and many friends . real life ones .	yeah . . i think i do it because i have to .
i do not like comics or sci fi . they always portray women as weak .	do you have a favorite comic ?
we will have to agree to disagree . i am all about feminism .	you are right , she most definately is
do you only use organics ? most chefs are male .	talking to people online is good for that though , i think
i do too . does your restaurant have solar panels ?	no , it will be affordable products .
you should . every little bit helps mother earth .	no , it will be affordable products .
oh that is cool . i hung out with taylor swift	brunch is nice , what is your favorite food ?
i sell a lot of hummus at a convenience store	kfc then ? lindsey stirling is such a cute little girl . . i have all of her cds
yeah . i do not like it .	they eat a lot of meat ?
i hate cooking . my girlfriend does it for me	there are a lot of healthy recipe boks out there that could be helpful .
why do you not cook here ?	did you already cook dinner ?
google can tell you anything , best thing to use	in the united states of america ?
its a special little man .	that is spot on correct answer .
great just left work , how are you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
cool . . . . not much of a singer	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
nice , i am from colorado	you said you like country music ?
they are a good team , do you have any hobbies ?	i love rock , what instrument do you play ?
i go hiking with my dog trooper	i really enjoy hiking and being out in nature
i got him when i was a young boy and trooper was all i could think of	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
awesome . how old is he ?	i guess i would have to say that i became an engineer and i enjoy that
lol that is unique and interesting	she is 34 years old now
i am well . where are you living ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
well , i am in the united states too , but i came from somalia .	i am from ohio how about you ?
i am trying to get a job in the new york ballet , but i teach dance .	i work part time as a music teacher . you ?
well my story may inspire your students in that case .	true i want to teach kindergarten when done with this education program . you ?
you must be very excited ! tell me about it .	its not that hard . i will help you !
you must feel very excited to start a new chapter of your life .	that is not true ! you will find someone !
really , dance is my only thing . i also spend time with my aunt .	i like cooking sometimes with friends
no not yet , do you ?	no kids , i am single .
i am doing good , how are you ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
awesome , what do you do ?	i am good . tired from school today . how are you ?
on the weekend i dance , i also work in a bookstore and studied chemistry .	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
lucky you , i wish i was retired already lol	what ever keeps you busy !
i will try , which color do you hate the most ?	i agree . well with my dog anyway
the color i hate the most is orange and i use some technology .	i definitely love the colors , yes .
a smartphone is good but being on it 24 7 is terrible for your eyesight .	i may give it a try , do you have any pets ?
good evening . how are you tonight ? i am well .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
i am trying to write invoices for my dog walking business .	not bad taking break from studying you ?
i love the violin . i do not play anything . i kayak for fun however .	a great way to help study is by listening to music . it really helps me !
oh wow ! i would love to visit a foreign country . was it fun ?	my dad used to read me some stories but now he lives in china .
i imagine it would . i speak a little spanish , not much . i like reading though .	obviously , 300 languages is amazing ! ! did you learn chinese i assume ?
i am a grad student and i eat my share of chocolate during late night studying .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
is not tha the truth ? it leaves little time for much else .	i should learn then . chocolate is my favorite .
hi amanda , i want to take over the world .	hello . i am sam how are you
i hate shopping . or spending money	yes ! you are beautiful and wonderful and the best person for your kids ! believe it !
i have two pairs of jeans and one pair of shoes .	i like to go clothes shopping without 2 little kids . its easier !
i do not work . all my children are grown and do not visit	i am employed . do you do anything ?
that is how parents are . they care about you	they think i take my job too seriously
yeah maybe someday . i hope they will	exactly . hopefully you will have kids one day so you can chat .
i do not have any grandkids	i would love to visit one day !
nothing really . i just read books about the world	sightseeing mostly . i let my eight grandchildren decide what we do .
good , my son just left for junior high school	hey , i am doing well , you ?
he is not good , but i help him a lot	how many kids you have ?
no i am a stay at home dad , and you ?	i work in a school
i was in human services 10 years before i quit to pursue my passion	so you work as a doctor ?
horror movies , i like to be scared , and do you have any interest ?	horror in general is my favorite , but his works are just amazing
what do you like about friday ?	i love movies whats your favorite movie
there is a big park near the school , you should come .	i enjoy spending time alone at a park .
i like near the coast and you ?	i am from washington dc , you ?
i am doing good , how about you	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
that sounds great ! i do not cook much	hi , its going well and you ?
nice . i just work for the us postal service	does that mean you are a cook ?
no you did not , wow !	no clue where he is from , do you know
my father drove for nascar	must be my italian heritage . we are welcoming people . just do not cross us . . . . .
its a lot of fun you should come sometime	my dad used to take me to races with him when i was little .
yeah it is . are you a dog person ? i have a german shepherd	lets see who will win the race i am challenging you that is why i said that
mhm yummy . my dogs name is barnaby	aw that is nice . i never had a dog . i bet its awesome .
hi . how was your day ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
guess how old i am ? ? i am 100 !	good just driving and thanks for asking
surprisingly , i am strong for 100	what did you major in ?
honestly , i may live forever	i am perfect . you would be surprised at how perfect and wealthy i am .
i grew up in new york	i live in nyc how about you ?
what school do you want to go to	i finished school about a year ago . i still want to go back though .
i do indeed know it	right ! just started at nyu this year .
i am in ohio . we are almost neighbors .	i am from north america . i learned french was in 9th grade . that was years ago
congratulations ! i do not have any kids . the musician lifestyle is too hard for that .	yes i have four young kids and you ?
i am sorry to hear that . is there something you would rather be doing ?	i speak two languages , french and english !
wow . that sounds pretty interesting . what subjects would you focus on ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
wow . he must be a pretty interesting guy if you are going to do a documentary .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
so what else do you like to do besides make documentaries ?	it was different . i only speak english . i would love to learn spanish .
personally , i like to study languages .	i speak two languages , french and english !
i am doing good . its a chilly night . how are you ?	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
i am a waitress at the local perkins .	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
we have 5 kids . it is a such a handful !	i am full time a taxidermist and then the rest of the time i am with the kids .
how many kids would you want ?	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
our house has 3 garages for my motorcycle .	well , for starters , i have 5 children . we always have a house full of kids !
a harley davidson . what kind of car do you have ?	i own a lot of different cars .
those are good cars ! we also have a 1970 chevy impala .	ford focus ? 2017 power windows maybe ?
i would have liked to race the cars .	cars can be very expensive . are you buying new or used ?
hello , i am wonderful , how are you ? i am a canadian .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i am on the other side of lake erie .	did you ever serve in the army ?
i am currently enlisted in the canadian army .	i am in the navy .
i have a dog , her name is shelby .	i have two dogs and one cat .
hawaiian , but i do not eat it very often .	mine was pizza . now it is carrots .
have you ever been to hawaii ?	its really delicious is not it ! i like all kinds of pizza .
i have never heard of them .	me either its the last state i need to visit . and then its on to canada .
90s metal was popular in mine .	i would not know about that , being from canada .
hello emily , my name is kim . what have you been up to today ?	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
waiting tables is hard work . unwinding sounds better	cleaning on your off day ? no other plans ?
looks good to me , i hate hat hair , sweating , ugh	yes , but it is not that great . i wish i could quit .
yeah , snow , i move south in the winter since i retired	no i do not but maybe one day .
spent alot of time on airplanes , now i grill , gamble and have fun	i am currently self employed .
i would say it does , ride much or race ?	yes ! that would be awesome .
where is down here ? i mow the lawn when weather is great	very good . it is sunny and that makes me happy .
florida here , everybody is old , retired and does casinos here so i do not stick out .	that makes things feel warm and sunny for sure .
i am doing great ! how about you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
well , that sounds like fun ! do you skate too ?	hi i am doing pretty good how are you
ouch ! i am sorry to hear that . you need to sleep though .	yeah i bet ! that must be difficult .
being a former member of the military , pain is never far from home .	you could volunteer your time , it would keep you busy for sure .
i am going to the bunny sanctuary where i volunteer .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
it is adorable ! thousands of bunnies hopping around freely .	are you thinking of joining the navy ?
well thank you . same to you .	right now . take care ! ! been nice chatting .
i have work tomorrow . i work at a ship yard , and morning comes early .	really ? do you do anything to assist you with coming out ?
i am great ! just got back from a run !	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
pretty much ! i also swim and ride my bike and play soccer .	no , but i do like to go running . do you run with your dog ?
what kinds of active things ?	how long have you been married ?
wow that is really cool ! any famous movies you have been in ?	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
ah , i see . are you married ?	nope . there is not anything else interesting abut me .
me too , but we do not have any kids . just a dog !	haha ! no , not married . . . probably wo not be to be married but its ok
his name is banjo and he is a mini aussie shepherd .	dogs are the best . what are their names ?
he is five years old but people think he is a puppy since he is a mini !	haha ! how long have you had him
i am from alabama . i work construction , i learned from my dad . you ?	hi , i am fine how are you ? where from ?
what do you do in the army ?	really ? ! ! i also have 2 cats and 3 dogs .
following in the family footsteps , very cool . do you have any pets ?	i did not finish school , i enlisted in the army instead .
yes , i have 5 cats . i rescued them and they are very special to me .	i do not have any cats , but i do have 2 wonderful dogs
i like to cook . how about you ? any interesting facts ?	actually , i find it fascinating .
i have not , i should take it up though . it is nice to try new things .	i like kofta dish and the way they cook meat in masala with all the spices
do you watch the food network or follow cooks on facebook ?	i love to travel . i want to go to canada next .
yes , i believe it is , as long as you can follow directions .	yes , but exactly what .
h hey buddy , spare some change ? oh i got the shakes lad .	hello , i am well . where do you live ?
burp oh is that so ? do you preform on sidewalks by chance ?	you just stay on the farm ?
i left me farm life behind , live in the city now .	i am not sure what that is . i am sorry .
d does shaking count as dancing ? oh man . . i need a drink .	yes , i also go overseas sometimes and see how other people live .
teaching dancing to inanimate objects was my profession . i live in a box .	oh , i do not think they would want me to drink that during the day
p pig skins are monitored by the illuminati . they want to take away our booze .	well smoked pig , is the best . ever been to a pig roast ?
is vomit stains insurance ? it seems to keep everyone away .	i wish . i got like 50 dollars . partly there right ?
i am 45 ! my mom is dead . darn you illuminati !	my mom died in 1979 .
i love taylor swift , she is my favorite	oh . what is your favorite song ?
do you like eating out ? i do	you have dogs too ! they are my favorite animal .
sounds fun ! i just turned 24 .	yes . i never got to do much , i had to start work at a young age .
i am a kindergarten teacher . keeps me busy	oh , well i listen to a lot of music . you play in a band ?
i think music is the key to life .	being a teacher in a kindergarten , i am very good with kids , i can help you
i would rather eat out with friends .	i cannot disagree with that !
i do not mind it , as long as i know it is there and the bills are paid	i would like to make more money . you ?
it can be . can also be a boring one .	yeah . trade your time for to get the bills paid .
i am doing great polishing my red and blue striped race motorbike .	hi ! i am doing well and you ?
i have been racing for over 10 years , how are you today ?	tell me about it . been saving up to go racing again .
wow , i am sorry to hear .	have you ever wondered if you could change your eye color ?
sorry to hear dude i am glad you are still alive .	i can definitely relate . what is your eye color ?
hey , well when you recover from surgery maybe you can ride a motorbike .	have you ever wondered if you could change your eye color ?
ep , just make sure to wear a helmet and safety eyewear , that is what i do .	well maybe next time you are able to do that .
yes because if not , your eyes will start tearing up and your mouth will drool .	have you ever wondered if you could change your eye color ?
it sure is , the sunrise was a lovely orange this morning .	hi , its going well . and you ?
i walked to the pet store and came back with a fish .	cannot complain . how is your day ?
many people have outdoor aquariums , my ex boyfriends parents did .	i would not want to clean fish . . .
my birthday cake yesterday had a tiny aquarium piped on it .	yeah i just make aquariums haha nothing nearly as exciting
thank you so much , how old is he ? i am finally 18 .	is it his birthday today ? have you bought a present ?
aww . how sweet . my parents forgot my birthday , as usual .	how old is he ?
mine are self absorbed , unless it is about them they do not care .	aww sory to hear that .
good . just relaxing after a long day of gardening . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i do too . i do a lot of outdoor walking .	i like exercise , you should try it
understandable . i have a dog . do you have any pets ?	do you like dogs ? i have one .
nice . i am a school teacher . what do you do ?	i have a dog and a cat . do you have any pets ?
very cool . a lot of people at my church wear it that way . i go every week .	i work in my garden growing plants all day . what do you look like ?
i love it . i have been doing it for years now .	no , teaching is my job . i garden in my free time . what about you ?
thank you . it is appreciated .	yeah it is important to do what you love .
it is not to lae to do so .	what subject do you teach ?
the same . me and the cats are watching the birds .	hi , i am doing well and you ?
no coffee here . doctor says no . trials of being old i guess	yes its a way to relax .
oh young people . the holidays are coming . that makes me sad .	it sure can lift your spirits .
my kids do not come . just me and the cats again ? do you like cats ?	oh would you and your son like to volunteer at the animal shelter with me ?
oh , that would be wonderful . so long as they are nice to the animals .	thank you , i do not like cats . or dogs . birds . any animal for that matter .
i will have to send for some from the store .	and coffee ? coffee is very important to me !
i am on a special diet from the doctor . better eat what she says	i eat pretty much everything , what about you ?
not any sicker than usual , just old i guess	yes she is eating right now .
hello lets get to know each other	c amon down . i will introduce you to my sister and her dog ciales . ll .
not really i am more of a foot ball guy	hey how are you ? i do
that is boring as heck dude	do you like dogs ? i have one .
yes very . i grew up in alabama	so you were the second lowest paid professional , what a i care , i coulda bought your school .
you do seem pretty boring	i know nothing about you , what is your favorite color ?
that does not make any sense	ll not really just boring
are you just typing to type ?	no , that is just crazy .
oh wow you said something that had context	i can watch football
hi , i work at a pawn shop as the watch dealer cashier . you work ?	hi . i am good . you ?
great ! i love shoes and want a rolls royce one day . you drive ?	my job is in car sales . how about you ?
wow ! my parents will not let me work as a stripper . i want a rolls .	no way i would rather drive my cheap little car .
oh okay . is your church for ex strippers ? you sing in the choir ?	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
get out ! i danced for a queen too . she paid for the dance though .	yeah , but have you ever been dancing before ?
oh ! not much money in fanning feathers is it ? why did you change ?	i like to go dancing .
i see . i strip because my parents would not buy me a rolls royce car .	i paint and sell them online . do you know of any other ways ?
sure , what is your favorite color ?	well think about it in your old age . of 8 or 9 .
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	i am in high school
i prefer colder weather like winter	how old are you ? are you a student ?
that is funny , i do not get along with my wife	do you have any pets ? i have a dog .
i think she hates my blue eyes	you must have a good relationship with her i bet
i do not like school	blue and red are mine . its hard to pick one lol
columbus day or some nonsense	i go to school i graduate soon
i mean i have long beautiful hair so does it matter what i learn ?	school is not the only important thing in life . they should understand that
i am good . hope you are having a great evening	hello i am doing good how are you ?
i am watching my girlfriends dog . a chihuahua . she is a nervous kond of animal	i have two dogs and their a job to be around .
i work in the west virginia coal industry . what about yourself ?	i am a finance consultant for a bank
i enjoyed the sport when i was younger . good to communicate with you .	you really do not i am a professional
no . i have been single all my life but recently got together with a great person	dating , too young for marriage right now .
are you all happy together and looking forward to the holidays ?	you sound like my ex wife . we just got divorced .
thank you ! ! we are a mixed race couple and the best of friends .	thank you so much . i hope i do well in my marriage .
just working . keep these people quite in the library .	not much how are you
yes i am . but really hoping to retire soon .	i am working at a museum for the time being . how about you ?
no , its hard to keep up now that i am in my 60s .	no just cats . i travel a lot , traveled around world on boat last year .
problem is i do a lot of traveling like to spain .	i have a dog and a cat . do you have any pets ?
yes , but i love traveling , before i am really too old .	i would love to travel as well .
that is awesome . i hear it is very relaxing .	i really should travel since i will be retiring in 6 months .
oh wow yes i can only imagine . crazy cat women comes to mind .	it can be hard . haha . do you enjoy traveling ?
oh year . you are just too funny !	he loves the cat so that is good . . . lol
i am doing good . dreading the holidays .	hi , i am good . what about you ?
the holidays make me fussy . i do like watching birds with my pet cats .	i volunteer at the aspca , and i am in a coffee club . you ?
i spend a lot of time advocating for animal rights . good hobby for a geezer .	it makes me as happy as seeing animals do .
i love star wars ! i dyed my hair like a rainbow for the last movie .	i do . i love it .
no kidding ! when i was in college , helmets were still leather .	i love the game football !
you would not believe me if i told you . i am older than your grandparents .	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
makes my rainbow hair all the more weird , but thanks !	i am happy for you !
that is very nice of you to say . where do you live ?	it makes me as happy as seeing animals do .
hello , my sons and i are having a father son bonding night .	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
one of my sons is 13 and the other is 15 . do you have pets ?	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
i have 2 dogs . do you like sports ?	no , i do not have any pets .
we love to watch soccer , its too hot to play here . we live in florida .	i love other football called soccer .
i bet , working in it for the last 15 years i am out of shape .	florida is great but a little too hot for me . where are you in florida ?
you are right . i should start playing soccer with them .	its good to keep in shape , especially since it sounds like your job requires it .
yeah good idea . you are smart i bet you are doing good in school .	i should try swimming , lol no balls in it !
practice makes perfect , keep working at it and you will be good soon .	got ya . i tutor children in math .
hi ! no i have not . i eat a lot of chocolate though	i like fried chicken and chocolate cake , hobbies ?
how old are you ? i am 5 . some do not understand me , but i like to talk	you should stop doing that . get a dog .
oh i see . well when i grow up , i want to be a dog	it may seem odd that a dog purrs , but that is how much she likes it .
what does your dog do ? i like to play with blocks and sing the alphabet .	he is a standard poodle .
that sounds like fun . my mom shops for me all the time !	what do you usually shop for ?
oh wow . that is alot of shoes !	i make great chocolate cakes . i could make you one for dessert ?
that is crazy . i love chocolate so much !	you like dogs ? do you have a dog ?
hi i am from alabama what about yo	hi . do you have any hobbies ?
yeah they are scary have you seen the new it movie	haha ! do you have brothers or sisters ?
what kind of foods do you like	lol ! yes , i can see it !
i love tacos they are my favorite thing to make	i like tacos and pizza
yeah it can be good sometimes are there any good taco spots near you	what is your favorite cuisine ?
that is good what tacos are your favorite	yes my favorite place to go . i usually go with my 3 sisters and 2 brothers
yeah those are so amazing	i love tacos and animals
that is funny do you have any siblings	i have three brother and sister
i am good , i enjoy riding horse ! how about you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
lol , i rotate the crops in my farm fields	really ? ! ! i also have 2 cats and 3 dogs .
why is winter your favorite ?	right ? horse are the best animals
that is pretty cool ! i just farm and my father does too !	that is great for exercise !
no , i just like to listen to music , especially rock !	i wear many hats , there should be multiple streams of revenue
my favorite is acdc ! what about you ?	i love music , i listen to it almost constantly !
oh true , i like those too but not as much	i like r b and pop , you
i like bach when i am relaxing but when i am working i prefer rock music .	hello , i am doing good and you ?
what do you like to do ?	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
a tractor would help with my job tending fields . what is your job ?	have you ever ridden a horse ? i am all about them .
i have horses on my farm . what do you have on yours ?	i have a job helping with horses too .
do you do anything for fun ? i enjoy equestrian .	i love to ride horses .
sounds like you have a very good but quiet lifestyle !	do you ever listen to rock ? it is my favorite !
i do work hard especially taking care of my three arabian horses !	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
they are ! and i love riding them !	i have a job helping with horses too .
am happy for you and also have the same plans next year	it is great ! how about you ?
wow my girl friend is still sticky about having a baby	now that would be a dream for sure
not as yet i first had a tight work schedule not allowing to have one	no i have no kids but i would like some
i love women who eat to their fill	have one child myself and another on the way . ages ?
my hobbies are watching movies and listening to music	i enjoy taking care of my children .
do you find your kids fun ?	i like movies and music alot
are you a nice parent to them ?	no , not really . my kids keep me pretty busy so little time for hobbies .
that is the dream of every loving parent	they are great kids but i am sick of having to deal with them all the time !
how are u doing tonight and are u married	you sound like my husband . ll !
i have been married for 5 years and have 2 kids	fair enough . does your husband have a good job ?
i am not old but not young i just bought a house last week	yes , i have two and yourself
well do u eat healthy or do u just eat cereal	do you have or plan to have kids ?
yes i have candy but i do not like to share it	i prefer chocolate and milk
so whats your favorite color mine is red	what is your favorite candy ? i can never decide
no coloring on the walls is not a good idea	i definitely love the colors , yes .
time out is very bad do u like music	yeah i believe that . i should try it some time .
no i do not do you ?	hello i am fine and you
that is nice what kind of music do you like	do you like music ?
i am a music producer for rap artists	i love rap music . i just got a new car with a great stereo system .
work takes up a lot of my time	i just focus on school . i get great grades . what about you ?
i just got a new honda that i am pretty excited about	i take public transportation so an express bus .
yeah its nice but can be expensive	i enjoy soccer a lot too .
yeah and luckily i like my job	i does not pay very well
that would be cool i bet its really hard though	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
it is raining here , i am just drinking coffee , what are your plans after ?	i am well this morning thank you
do you go gambling often ? i have never been	practice all you can and it will pay off one day !
i have to go to the pharmacy today , i am not looking forward to the traffic	i would rather spend the weekend at a casino
i used to live in canada , i know snow . i live in a city now	that makes things feel warm and sunny for sure .
that is awesome , i have no view , just the buildings surrounding me	ll ! there ya go ! lots of time exploring canada .
you are so lucky , i take vacations in south carolina for that very reason	near the beach ? i love the ocean .
florida is one of the last places i would ever live , california as well	it is so sad what happen in fl
i teach elementary school , and so did my parents . now you ?	why do you want to play that
that is exciting . what did you go to school for ?	no , i am actually a music teach . .
well , i love board games , and i would like to think i am the best . do you ?	i am going to be a teacher .
that must be interesting . do you have a favorite band ?	reading is great , unless it is school work .
nice ! to me , the best band ever is up . i even went to their concert once .	what would you say your favorite band is ?
i just told you , silly goose . the band up . what about you ?	yes , love it . great band .
i am not entirely sure what they would be considered as .	indie , hip hop , oldies , etc . very open . you ?
i teach elementary school . what do you do ?	i teach 7th grade science .
i am doing well . do you have any hobbies ?	i am doing well just relaxing before work . you ?
wow that does sound busy , i do not have kids , but 3 horses	got any kids ? i have three
my family has a farm , i work in the fields most days	i work part time as a music teacher . you ?
that is to bad , i do not think i could work without music	i work at the bank .
i like rock , how about you	do you listen to music ?
does it help them sleep ? i could try it with my horses	what do you play ? what do you listen to ?
i have a special mix of grains and grasses i use	i ride horses and and breed cattle
when have some sheep , and a few cows . we are getting some pigs in the spring	yes they are here on the farm
hi there , i am bob .	hello and good morning to you
i retired a long time ago	hi . do you have any hobbies ?
outdoor grilling is my favorite thing .	i wear many hats , there should be multiple streams of revenue
what is your favorite color ?	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	hmm probably blue but i usually wear green !
always i love skateboarding too	no . i just do it for fun . what do you do ?
healthy is good , better than my gambling	like a sport or a board game or what ?
i like to mow lawns	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
hello ! i am good . i just came inside from tending to my fields .	i am great , just finished working on the farm
ironically , i do not like the food i plant . i prefer pizza .	like duh ! you said that . so you must be in the country ?
my father hates that i do not like the food we plant , as he is a farmer .	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
do you like music ? i love rock music and listen to it while i work !	he loves double cheese burgers and chicken nuggets
it is funny that my arabian horses , that i have three of by the way , love it .	i love country ! and hip hop .
three years . they are my favorite ones to ride . more fun than driving a car !	many years , since i was a child . what do you do ?
i bought a comfortable saddle online not too long ago , but you are right .	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
i wish i could teach more people to learn to ride	haha well it definitely seems worth it ! what do you do for fun ?
yes . i need a friend now while i am going to divorce soon .	why do you want me to buy you a new car ?
i was 20 when we married and 40 now so that long .	no . but i am think i might get married again . do you have a partner ?
hope it is better . she takes all the money from my bad job and spends it .	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
no we did not . i sell cars just for her to blow the money .	what do you do for a living ? i am a car salesman .
i like television and she loves shopping .	i like videogames and i am a big music fan .
i guess we did do that together . maybe i will keep her .	you best go and do not rush finding a husband . you have time .
she does have more good than bad .	you sound like my ex wife . we just got divorced .
yes but her personality is more beautiful .	she is very pretty . do you date ?
i would like to chat with you .	no , tell me about it .
oh , wow . why has it been so long ?	i usually do not talk this much , thank you for the conversation .
i have not been there before . what did you used to do for work ?	no , i have not . i have head of it though .
i understand . i often feel isolated , as well .	that is a great profession .
i have . it comes in handy when life gets . . . out of control .	no , it never crossed my mind . that could give me more free time .
i was born with a heart condition and received a transplant . it changed me .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
fine , except . . . i have developed these strange abilities . i can . . . move things with my mind .	it truly does weaken the bones .
it can be scary . why did you choose to find yourself in alaska ?	ok , yeah that is like a visual meditation . nice .
i hear it is lovely there . i have to go now . thank you for chatting !	i have not looked too much into it but maybe down south
i am okay i guess , pretty lonely though .	am fine and am zitah
well , living in a cloud i guess has that effect .	i like to keep a good outlook on life .
that sounds nice , i bet you are never lonely .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
i am too young to buy a house , at least most people say so about little girls .	can you get me a good deal on a house ?
i am suppose to be , but i use my super powers to stop time and not go .	i am in school still .
it is lonely , could i come play with your kids ?	i like your outlook on life , thank you !
they could come see my cloud home .	love it . we should play a game sometime .
i bet they would , it is so bouncy and fun there .	maybe , like , our kids could get together for a rainy day playdate ? ?
did you have to do any hard chores ?	teaches kids how to do stuff around the house . cook , clean , pay bills , sew
i am a school teacher and i love children and my job .	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
not really as a women i try to watch my diet at all times .	cheesecake and tiramisu are delicious .
true but i like to try to keep my figure down .	well , my dogs are more than i can handle to be honest .
the most exercise i do is walking my dogs	i also exercise with my dog , we go for long walks .
i have a hound and a pitbull . and i love them very much .	i keep two canines as tamed animals
wow you feed your dogs burgers that cant be good for them !	he loves double cheese burgers and chicken nuggets
with to dogs i cant have any cats in the house .	i have two dogs and one cat .
hi staci , my name is blob . i like to eat raw and recently bought a house .	i am fine , and you ? do you like musicians ? i am one .
like raw veggies , grains , etc . i attend the rolling stones every year if possible .	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
ya is not that souther rock ? my major is economics .	no , what kind of music do they play ?
what was your favorite park ?	ah so you have been in the us for a while now . seen any concerts here ?
which state is that in ? i attend meetings and pretend like i know a lot .	i graduated college a year ago . how about you ?
that is awesome . i am sure you are very talented after starting that young .	my dream is to play music for my job one day .
it is ok . i have thought about going back to school for another degree .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
some science , like bio medicine . did you study music in school ?	i finished school about a year ago . i still want to go back though .
hi . how are you ? i do since i work for myself walking dogs	oh , no . why ?
oh you have a dog too . i have three .	i love dogs , i have two of them .
wow that is scary . what do you like to do for fun ?	i do not have any pets . my father never let me . he is a loser .
that is cool . my dad was a door to door salesman .	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
i am not into makeup much	oh . i used to do that . my mother was the sweetest person .
i understand . at least you have government benefits	i want to look good .
i can only imagine . are you in a relationship at the moment ?	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
i am doing amazing , how are you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
nice , do you have any pets ?	i am doing great , how about you ?
puppies are cool , i want one	i do not have any dogs , but i have two cats . do you ?
any to help me forget about my cheating girl .	i love puppies . i hope things start looking up for you .
change of subject , what is your favorite color ?	omg you are a cheater smh
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	purple . how about you ?
i have a best friend	absolutely , i love the fall . halloween is my favorite holiday . do you like the fall ?
i really like waffles too	they love each other so much
hello , i am george , and i am great .	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
i am 26 . my wife is 19 . she is an italian super model .	he is going to be 8 , this month
stay in school , and raise bees . we need pollinators for the health of the earth .	do you think you will be a farmer for life ?
they should try again . that may have been due to them overheating during shipping .	that sucks that the government took your farm .
i have raised bees for eight years .	they said it was wild .
it sure is . my family has a papaya orchard , we started them there .	haha very true ! what are some of your hobbies ?
not anymore . my wife and i live in milan , italy .	yes . i live on a farm , actually . you ?
hi how are you today ?	hey , i am doing well , you ?
my sister used a skate board one time in her act	i am doing well !
she got hurt by hitting a pole	that is so adorable . anything else you want to tell me about yourself ?
she is a pole dancer	she was ? has she passed ?
she makes a bit she bought me a tractor	oh no ! where did she go ?
yeah she had it painted bright red too	i bet she is ! does she work ?
i like to listen to music and you ?	i paint a lot in my free time .
that is awesome do you work full time too ?	i love to skateboard , how about you ?
hi , i love sports because my parents are athletic	from home yes . lots of typing
i do speak another language and you ?	i have been doing it for years . how long have you been in the business ?
nice to know , i like to run and in marathons	do you speak any other languages ?
wow , china is a big country , in china do they eat strange food	hi i am a professional athlete i love marathons . what do you do for fun ?
i eat clean meaning i do not eat in a sloppy way or slurps	i like fried chicken and chocolate cake , hobbies ?
chocolate is expensive in china ? do they have white	its very good for you , full of nutrients
slurping is not for chinese people , only the japanese does it	yummy ! i invented chinese food milk , you would slurp it down
i am a life coach by the way	japanese is a hard language to learn . do you like sports
i am sweaty . i just got done working out for my job as a wrestler . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i have never done a marathon . i should try it . how many have you done ?	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
that is great . i help out at the homeless shelter . it is very fulfilling .	i am 50 ! the only think i will run for willingly is my life .
thanks , i like people . i think most of them are good , so i try to help .	yes . i love giving back to the community i grew up in .
i spend most of my time with my job and helping people . do you have any hobbies ?	hobbies are always a good idea .
i could not do vegetarian . i need a lot of protein for my body	i enjoy cooking . i volunteer at a soup kitchen
how do you control the gas ? i do like beans , just not too many .	really ? do they use beans in place of meat ? i am an animal lover .
what is your favorite meal ?	have you heard of soya beans ?
hi ! i love horror movies . what about you ?	i am good . where do you live ?
cool me too . my father once worked in home depot .	i am in between jobs . how about you ?
i am working in human service field . what about you ?	dude i start senior year next week . almost done ! you ?
that is cool . my son is in junior high school .	no only one daughter and you ?
yes i have been here for a while . what about you ?	no not since by dad died back in high school .
i am not that old . what about you ?	five years apart 11 and five what about your kids ?
yes i am . i have a child who is 14	dating , too young for marriage right now .
that is really great . i hope you have a healthy future .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
not bad hanging out with my cats . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh hopefully you find one i am excited about winter its my fav	i am working . do you work at all ?
do you like icecream ? i really like vanilla	oh , so no ice cream for you then . haha
do you collect anything ? i do hats	i usually get a vanilla frappe .
oh that is a good hobby can learn alot	how long have you been collecting ?
i like ice skating but i am not very good	i like everything b l u e
i try my best but its easier to learn as a kid	i hate winter it gets too cold
i really like the blair witch 2 , you ?	i like cinderella the best
hi i am good how are you	hello ! i am good and you ?
that is cool are you going soon ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
yeah he is pretty awesome i like him too	maybe you could write the story to a video game . . .
i am out of school i have a job	he is in 10th grade
yeah haha i went to vet school but i would rather work from home	i am out of school right now
oh wow are you excited for high school	i work online as a professional gamer , which has been a great career
haha that is funny what kind of food do you like	i am not forced to work yet just school which i really dislike
hello ! i am well , and you ?	i am doing great and you ?
i do . what is your favorite ?	oh yes . you play that as well ?
monopoly is the best game , i agree . what grade are you teaching ?	yes , love kid rock , reading and anything purple . you ?
teachers are wonderful . i have a cousin that teaches high school .	my dad teaches high school and my mom teaches the 4th grade .
teachers are wonderful . i have a cousin that teaches high school .	i do travel some i go to india quite a bit .
i love music as well .	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
live music is the best .	what is your favorite genre of music ?
good . just got done with my part time waitressing gig . you ?	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
does he like to play outside ? i like to ride my motorbike everywhere .	hello my pal i am doing great . how are you ?
do you like to race ? i have a shiny striped red and blue helmet for safety .	i like all music and love to sing and sometimes i like to rap too .
no , but i like to look at food with my big brown eyes and light skin .	i like pizza . and the color blue .
i bet your eyes would match my bike helmet .	i can definitely relate . what is your eye color ?
i like to eat watermelons .	i am partial to blue . do you like any sports ?
spitting isn t lady like . i don t do that .	is it on me or is it on you ?
do any of your brothers race ? i could live on my motorbike .	hers are blue , is that okay ?
great ! just cannot sleep . why are you up so late ?	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
dog videos are fun , cats too . i like the dog memes .	hi i am brief i am doing good how are you
ah , dogs for boys cats for girls , huh ?	that is funny ! i have two cats and five dogs
why pizza of course . well depends on what toppings .	lol , food is life haha
yeah there are no anchovies ! anchovy makes me a cat person i guess .	fine , more tacos for me .
they are yummy salty little fish . you should try them .	haha , yeah ! i like that !
well that is a good plan . variety is the spice of life .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
i am a pro wrestler so there have been a lot of things .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
hello paula . nice to meet you	hello ! what do you do ?
i am 34 . where do you live ? i am from alaska	hi ! ! ! i am wonderful . and yourself ?
what line of work are you in ?	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
i actually quit working to focus on buddhism	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
no i do not . my body is a temple . i meditate often	i was also raised as a buddhist .
your parents want what is best for you . are you in college ?	i am also a buddhist
excellent choice ! that will provide great opportunities	yeah . i am in college , how about you ?
no , i get scared . i am excited about trick or treating . i am going to be ariel .	yes i watch movies
me too , and i already have the long red hair . it goes to my waist .	is it a boy or a girl ?
how old is she ? i am 12 . does she like school ? i hate it .	aw , how old is your daughter ?
i wish my dad did . i get picked on because of my hair and blue eyes .	she can do her own head , its between you and my father .
kids are just mean . they will not play with me .	because my blue and orange hair explains it all .
i like her name ! it is so pretty .	cute , what is her name ?
she is so lucky to have a pretty name . my name is sarah jane .	who does not know kesha ! love her too
doing good . just strumming my guitar . how about you ?	i am fine , and you ?
do you like cooking or baking ? or both ?	great how are you melody ?
my go to snack is chocolate bars	do you play any instruments ?
what other hobbies do you have ? i play violin and guitar	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
yikes i hate roller coasters . they are so scary .	i play the guitar . do you play any instruments ?
what do you do for work ? i am an electrician just like my dad .	the ocean is terrifying in my opinion
do you speak any languages ? i am teaching myself chinese	my dad worked as a cook , bartender . too hard for me so i fish .
yeah it is hard to learn but i would love to visit china one day .	it was different . i only speak english . i would love to learn spanish .
i am very good , just practicing taking pictures . how are you ?	hey there , i am doing pretty well , you ?
oh definitely ! i am moving next week into a new apartment with my boyfriend	hi , i am doing fine , how are you doing ?
learn a language , i speak english , french , and spanish . you can tutor or teach like i do	i hope to be a teacher in the future . you teach ?
it is a rewarding job , i teach at an elementary school and that is even more rewarding	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
i understand that , i spend a lot of my free time practicing photography	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
i am not either but i will have my own studio in my new apartment	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
thank you very much ! i appreciate that !	let me guess , you also love photography
i would be honored to teach you , maybe that second language !	i speak french and spanish i want to teach my kids
good , how about you ? ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
hate math . do you have any pets ?	hi good and you ?
awww ! i have cats , five of them . i know what you mean	that would be two cats , yes .
it is a lot of work ! do you have a job ?	lol i guess that is correct
cool , i work in construction . i really enjoying home building !	i am a construction worker . how about you ?
soccer is a lot of fun . how long have you been playing ?	i have been playing for years , i enjoy it
it is great to have a passion	i played a little bit of soccer in school , but was never really good at it
i agree with that ! life is tough	we need something in our lives beyond cats and dogs !
hey there , i am doing well , what do you do for a living ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
i am still in school , looking to be a lawyer	i work in a firm as a lawyer .
did you grow up in like a major city ? or ?	are you in school , high school or college ?
my god mother lives in trenton up there	i live in the suburbs in new jersey .
okay ? do you like m ms ?	chocolate cheesecake sounds real good right about now .
way to copy the prompts	yes , i teach guitar , violin , etc . i play several instruments actually
oh i am sure they are	i have a allergy to peanuts . its lovely .
mine raised horses , grew up on a farm	do you have other animals on your farm ?
no , i live in a small farming community in indiana . it is pretty boring .	yes , anything new or interesting
being a single parent is hard work . did you have any pets to keep you company ?	i bet . do you have a family ?
i have a german shepherd . the only books i have are coloring books , which i love .	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
very nice . do you like sports ? i like to watch the nhl hockey league .	do you like playing or watching hockey ?
how long have you been playing ?	i like to play field hockey and also soccer , you ?
that is pretty amazing , very lucky .	i have been playing for years , i enjoy it
i like to play blackjack . you ?	i run my own farm , which is pretty interesting i suppose .
i am doing very well	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i like dancing and reading vegan books	no , i live in pennsylvania .
what was it like there	what do you study ?
why were you forced into marriage	i bet lots of interesting stuff happens there . nothing happens here .
where do you live at	that is true . are you married ? i am not .
i am in mississippi the south	i live in the midwest how about you ?
how did you two meet	i am in the south . in alabama
i am too young for that	no , the relationship i am in is committed .
oh , i walk a couple miles a day so i know the pain .	me either its the last state i need to visit . and then its on to canada .
oh , i love spending time with my family .	i make chicken nuggets sometimes when i cook . i am a nurse . any other hobbies ?
i am glad he protected disneyland . it is my favorite place .	oh wow ! that is a lot of reading .
i like reading books to relax .	i love him . he is the best .
yeah , i need to do it a lot because i deliver babies .	yes its a way to relax .
yes it is pretty stressful .	i stay home to take care of the kids .
it makes me very happy .	yeah . i used to love it , but now its stressful .
yeah , i am glad you think so .	it is worth it ! do you have any pets ?
fine thank you lovely night where having .	hey there , i am doing well , you ?
do you like jogging . i love running .	is it raining out there
sounds really dangerous . is it safe to do that .	i love running ! it helps me to relax .
wow cool ! i got a new job just yesterday .	i make a decent wage . sports cars huh ? like fast driving ?
miami ! i also like to eat clean	i am from washington , dc .
i know i really like the idea of eating healthy .	i am not very athletic . if i go , i will eat all the food .
salad and meat . both of my parents were pretty athletic .	i sometimes do not eat very healthy foods .
so what kind of thing do they not encourage you in ?	do you run marathons ? i am interested in doing one myself .
i am good , thanks . just tired from the concert earlier . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i actually was performing . and , relaxation is always good .	yea , and i was not feeling it today .
it was an experience growing up in the industry . do you like country music ?	are you married ? any kids ?
you will never leave harlan alive	rock mostly . do you have a favorite artist or band ?
lol . i hope that you will be ok .	what type of songs do you sing ?
i walk two miles with my daughter every morning and evening .	i am about to go for a walk want to come ?
i have four kiddos . you ?	three children . how old is she ?
that is great . i just opened up a jug of my homemade apple wine last night .	i drink water most of the time .
hello , i am doing alright . getting ready to head to class myself .	i am doing well . where are you from ?
i do , i am hoping to go to law school . not married , engaged .	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
we built a house on my family horse farm . we have over 5000 acres .	sounds like a full house .
this has been in my family for generations .	i am thinking about buying my own land elsewhere . whats your job ?
it truly is . we have been here for 200 years .	i love it . great place to raise a family .
we have a food plot , mainly cattle and sheep	this huge mansion has plenty of room for a nice vegetable garden .
those are good too , we have a few pigs .	i live on a farm too , a pig farm .
it sure does , and that is perfectly fine by me .	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
fine . i am emma . i am four .	hello , i am fine and you ?
he he . do you like to sing ? i like the abc song .	hi ! how old are you ? i am 10 .
do they like candy sometimes ? i like chocolate .	do you like dogs ? i have one .
i like pizza and cookies . i like blocks to play with .	i do like chocolate , and tiramisu .
wow ! cool ! sometimes people can not understand me when i talk .	i watched it when i was younger .
that is silly . sometimes i wish i could be a dog .	haha , sadly they do not like people talking thing like that out or in .
thank you ! you are nice !	ha ha ! yes chocolate is a necessity in life !
not yet . bye bye . mommy is calling me .	i go to school . but i hate doing my homework .
hi , how are you today ? do you like to go shopping ?	good afternoon how are you
my favorite watch is the rolex ? what is yours ?	what kind of cars do you have ?
my favorite thing is to go shopping for watches and shoes	i own a bunch of cars . its kind of a problem . lol
i am sorry . i guess it is good that i work for a watch dealer	what kind of car do you drive ?
i am a girl too . but shopping is fun .	do you have a car ?
i am sad too . my family does not want me to work for a watch dealer	that is true . what is your family life like ?
are there rolls royce ghost cars there . that is my dream car	seems it would be cool to live there . i build cars for a living .
hi ! my name is sophie . i am doing well . how are you ?	i am good just watching a movie
i love watching the movie frozen and singing along !	i am doing great . getting excited for my yearly disney world trip
i just started the third grade and love to write poetry ! i write about mickey mouse .	disney movies are fun . i always enjoyed lady and the tramp . dogs are my favorite .
my family and i go to disney world every year ! have you ever been ?	ll he not a disney movie fan . ? there my all time favorites
i can not wait to go again !	we like any disney movie . actually going there next week with the kids .
yes ! my favorite team is the steelers . what is yours ?	football most of the time . .
cool ! i have never met anyone who played beyond high school .	it is my second year in the nfl .
where did you go to college ?	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
hello . i am on vacation in europe , doing very well tonight .	hi , i am great thanks , yourself ?
it is . i visit twice yearly . i am working on my art degree .	i have never been there . how is it ?
i love food , lol . i am doing a still life of fish and chips .	i do not do it that often but enjoy it .
i love paella , i eat it way too often to be healthy .	lol , i used to eat a lot to but i am trying to cut back .
i think the best time is anytime , lol	we like meat but carbs good for winter .
i eat ice cream sandwiches , like my great great whatever chris columbus .	i prefer vanilla myself .
i collect shoes and lingerie , so i feel your pain .	fair enough . there are so many to choose from !
i love dogs . big dogs .	i have two dogs and one cat .
hello i am doing pretty good and yourself	hi ! doing well . how about you ?
i rather watch a comedy then a horror movie	hi its going well how is yours going ?
oh really nice , i live alone i rather sew some curtains lol	you should treat yourself to a movie . i love going to the movies .
i do enjoy it a lot , i am retired and i have a cat	i do not , i like being alone . it is comforting
oh okay that really good , i figured i beat cancer being alone is not that bad	i live on my smartphone or gaming console
yeah i feel pretty good about that . i am living the good life now	indeed . i also participate in elderly clothes making activities
i like sitting around home and enjoying myself , i think its time to get a smartphone	if you find anything i can help sew it into something new
that is pretty awesome , my cat	i plan to start school again next fall .
blah , getting ready for over eaters anonymous class , you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i can not relax , i work with old stinky people .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am a nurse . it is the only thing that give me hope .	i work as a nurse . you ?
i am to big to run , my wife left me because i am so big	no , i work too much for kids .
baby . . . . . . . she took my babies too ! ! what do you do ?	haha my little girl is running around making it difficult
nurse and at night i manage atheist facebook groups .	i sell home insurance to people
blue , i guess . what is yours ?	i like blue . actually all the colors of the rainbow
hey there . been a relaxed sunday . yours ? music eclectic .	rock mostly . how about you ?
death metal . cool . i spent the morning volunteering .	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
that is great ! we both volunteer ! mine is rescuing bunnies .	when you sail on your boat , do you like to swim ? i do !
that is my idea of heaven . i love bunnies ! i donate to a bunny charity too .	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
what programming language are you learning ?	i think i will stick to building computers from the ground up .
that is cool . i tried c a long time ago , but could not understand it .	do computer programming , it makes 200 , 000 a year
a free spirited death metal loving aspiring programmer !	are you doing anything volunteer work for experience ?
i am sorry . hope things calm down between you .	yup ! i help people do all sorts of stuff , i love helping out family and all that .
i see . how are you doing today ?	i . . am not sure if you can do that ? do you have any kids ?
perhaps i will make you an adviser if i take the world over .	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
i have a grand child about your age . my kids should bring them around more	i . . am not sure if you can do that ? do you have any kids ?
perhaps your intelligence will survive time beauty is fleeting , and has not stayed with me .	i would love to have kids some day . any grandkids yet ?
i also spend a lot of time alone . my two kids never come over anymore .	you ever try to paint yourself ?
in my youth i painted . now my hands are stiff and i clean houses	haha , i may know who you are . my 2 kids are the same way .
yes they are . i am fifty six now .	kids make is all worth it , right ?
i used to , yes .	no , i did not know ! where do you live ?
i am good . i am only four . i eat chocolate . would you like to be a dog ?	i am still a college student
i go to preschool i want to understand when people talk to me .	no i do not . i would love to learn .
i live in texas how about you ? do you have a dog ?	i work as a professor at a local school .
i have a dog . i really want to be a dog when i get older	yes , i have one dog , you ?
i do not know . do you know how to become a dog ?	ha ha ! yes chocolate is a necessity in life !
i can do that if it will help me be a dog	i prefer chocolate and milk
me too . do you like chocolate	what do you want to be when you grow up ?
i like snickers . do you like snickers ?	i love chocolate ice cream . you .
that is great ! i used to know someone who was 106 . she had been judy garlands dentist	where do you like to walk ?
hamburgers and french fries will not help me to live that long , but they are my fav foods	i bet she does . are you a professional at it ?
i like walking . my house is close to a river and park so i walk there	so cool for you ! i prefer a dark wine instead .
i knew a hundred year old who remembered wwi	i was in a car accident when i was younger .
i like drinking rum but not with soda anymore .	i like to explore and draw
wine must be the secret to a long life then	yes , wine tasting is a lot of fun , but you get real drunk without realizing it .
yes the 106 year old i knew had all those things . so i guess that works	you live life to the fullest ?
i do not have any children and i sell electronics on the internet	not me , what else can you tell me about yourself .
oh gosh another day just grateful .	hi , its going well . and you ?
my hearing is not that good i just reached 100 years .	i love music . what is your favorite band ?
i am not sure if life has begun yet , i feel that there is way more ahead .	if i was younger i would have to agree .
i feel strong , other than the hearing part . i hear music from the inside .	i can imagine . i would like to experience that type of life .
i drink and dance at night when the moon is out .	i listen to music do you
you better . with or without tv . nobody had tv when i was young .	i like to craft , sing , dance , eat , watch television and read books . you ?
i cannot remember . i try hard to remember but nothing comes up .	i watch tv all the time
not really i am happy to forget all things .	i watched it when i was younger .
i am a piano teacher on the side	i live in the city . what do you do ?
i explore new parts of the city i am in	i play the guitar in a band . and you ?
those are beautiful horses . my father plays violin professionally .	do you play any instruments
i play quite a lot of instruments	what kind of music do you play ?
piano , guitar , drums , flute , chello	i play piano and guitar
yeah well music has been my passion in life	i play the guitar . do you play any instruments ?
that is awesome do you cook them or eat them raw	veggies are good for you . you should try eat more of them . what do you eat ?
that seems quite interesting	do you use fresh vegetables in your restaurant ?
oh how are you doing ? i am sorry to hear that .	were you impacted by the hurricane ?
i once lived in my moms house .	there is nothing wrong with that !
i am so sorry mines too in my twenties .	oh i am sorry about that .
yes i am with my boyfriend now try not to think about it .	oh , so sorry that your mom had to go through that .
yes i know it is hard i cannot drink soda .	yes that is a good way to stay busy .
yes my sister calls it pop too .	where do you live anyways ?
i eat to much french fries and hamburgers plenty food .	yes , wine tasting is a lot of fun , but you get real drunk without realizing it .
hi , my name is taylor . you might know my dad , he was a construction worker .	hello ! not to much how about yourself ?
no , do you like coffee ? because i love it !	i never drink . some say it might loosen me up but i do not think so .
what ? well how about alcohol , i hate alcohol and the color pink	do you drink coffee often ?
i love blue too , i also enjoy mountain biking . have you ever tried it ?	blue is a great color . i like red too .
cool , anything else interesting about you ?	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
no , i am a pretty bland person	i like to give my time by volunteering on the weekends .
yeah i guess , i actually went mountain biking yesterday at mt . ember	i said i love it .
whats up ? i am okay , broke up with my boyfriend recently	hello , i am fine and you ?
does she like to go hiking in the mornings ? i love that !	www that is sad . ty for your service .
awesome ! how old ? i just turned 18 .	because you are out on the water and have an opportunity to see the sunset !
wow your mom does not want to retire ?	i am 26 . do you have any hobbies ?
that is impressive . and yes i do ! do you like fish ?	i do . i like it a lot .
no not to eat . i have a huge aquarium and have them as pets .	not as much as i like eating , especially fish !
wow ! that is terrible . what is your favorite color ?	but there are lots of fish ?
orange is mine . why white ?	purple . black and purple go together well .
i am working on both of my vintage mustangs	yeah , and drive a refurbished mustang
cool i love country music sone songs are in spanish	i like different genres . how about you ?
cool i love going to the country music concerts	i like all types of music .
what dons that mean in english ?	same as ll but in spanish ! !
cool . i have to walk my 2 dogs soon	type too much ?
i cant wait we will walk to the park	i love dogs , i have two of them .
i will and live life and have fun !	i think i would enjoy walking it .
we both do and we will be happy with life	i like to keep a good outlook on life .
so high up where ? i am at ground level	good morning , how is your weather there
what are you doing up there ? i hate heights	well . pull up a seat , sit on the floor , tell me about yourself .
well sounds exciting ! i am trying to study . . for my spanish class	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
i am studying french next ! i love languages	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i love the word trabajo . . . just rolls off the tongue	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
what kind ? holiday parties ? work parties ?	not really . i love to party .
yes that is always a good time . do u work ?	i often throw parties , i am kind of great at it
okay , very rewarding i am sure	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
i am fine but my skateboard needs to be fixed	hello , i am well . you ?
yes , and my arm was broken when	nope ! a liger ! just kidding , you are right .
my friends were all skateboarding	ouch ! you know you are not suppose to do that . lol
have you heard of rob dryden ?	yes , i enjoy playing online games , what are your hobbies ?
he is a skater that i really look up to	i believe that he is .
of course but not really my focus right now healing	haha good , i hope so ! maybe one day i will try again !
oh why did you do it	we love it . just take what we can use and use all of the animal .
oh , but at least you are learning now	really why ? what happened ? i think to nice sometimes
hello jenny ! my name is lee and i am retired .	hi , i am good eating dinner ?
no i do not , but i like to grill . a gold medal ! fantastic !	i am an instructor in it .
no . i go south in the winter and i do like to gamble .	i do not do it ton but it is relaxing .
i like italian . my fave is lasagna .	i enjoy eating and cooking all italian foods ! !
i have not tried that but it sounds good .	i love carrots . i like to cook them glazed .
is plantain a kind of banana ?	try it some time you may like it .
that sounds like it would be good .	it is really good with carrots .
i am quite well . enjoying my tofu salad	i am well , thanks ! you ? whatsyour favorite color ?
i only eat vegetables . where are you from ?	i love to cook , so i will be doing a lot of that .
wow ! do you like it here ?	are you a vegetarian ? i am .
are you married to anyone ?	yes ! i have been there a few times , nice place
i married to the man of my dreams	nope not married yet lol
bob but he goes by stanley	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
we love painting and ballroom dancing what about you ?	he loves double cheese burgers and chicken nuggets
hi country guy , my husband and i live in the country too	good morning , how is your weather there
cool . no horses here , just a german shepherd	hi , harvesting . who are you ? i am a farmer , married and have 2 pet dogs , and you ?
ok . do you have any hobbies ?	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
that is quite to hobby . i like nhl and those adult coloring books .	i work and go to school , i travel a lot for work .
they sure are . i even have one with horses .	do you like hockey at all ?
sure . i can not really say the same about law school	well , you should check it out , if you have got time . what do you do ?
me too . i will be nice to know an attorney .	well as long as it makes you happy then keep doing it .
pretty good . got some pizza coming . whoo !	hey , i am good . you ?
oh wow . all i have is a dog . that is enough for me .	hi i am doing well today . do you have any hobbies ?
doberman . his name is charlie .	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
i produce music . what do you do at the bank ?	i do finance for a local business
when are you due ?	i make minimum wage . i sit in a little box all day . it stinks of gasoline .
i thought it was twins ?	i have 1 girl and 2 boys we want one more girl
you will be busy with all those kids .	twin boys that are 4 , remember ?
awesome . need to find a bigger place myself .	really ? do you like it . that sounds like something i should invest in .
my biggest fear is being attacked by scorpions	lol . i bet they love that
i work for the government , the u s postal service to be exact	is it getting warm there ?
i believe they are insects , ny daddy use to drive a nascar race car	no not at all they are loud and annoying
my dog which is a german shepard , is a retired cop	i love music of all types
his name is barnaby , he is 13 years old	your father sounds like an interesting man .
teaching is a great profession , you should be proud	i used to want to be a race car driver when i was a kid
i think you may be right about that , he is very smart	i used to want to be a race car driver when i was a kid
without teachers this world would be stupid	yes me too he is teaching me so much .
doing good man , just tuning up my guitar . i have a gig tonight .	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i am a janitor , but i also play music at night . you ?	i work from home in customer service . how is school going ?
it is , i am like bob dylan . lol someday i guess .	i do not work , i play in a band .
one of them , i play instruments like him and folk songs too .	maybe , what is your favorite genre of music ?
yes , he is the best . do you think so ?	i guess as much as the next person . why ?
what else do you like to do ?	he is such an awesome artist .
i play my folk songs at a coffee shop sometimes . it is nice .	i work at a coffee shop to make money .
every morning before i go to my janitor job . it is hard .	i work at the coffee shop down the street
i am doing great on this crisp fall night	hi , doing well and you ?
sports are ok but i love cooking shows and cooking	i like swimming . what hobbies do you have ?
that is a great idea i am single so i only make enough for one	are you married ? any kids ?
but it is tough cause i am vegan and my friends are not	we all live together trying to survive an make it
i like to go skydiving or ride a rollercoaster	i like to fish and swim .
wow first floor apt for me so no stairs	you should go cliff diving
how many children do u have	just curious to how big is your house and how much you enjoy it ?
i love dogs want a husky but cant have one yet	we have a family dog
