i am good , i just got off work and tired , i have two jobs .	hi there , i am good today , just catching up and reading , you ?
i rather read , i have read about 20 books this year .	interesting , my hobby is going to the movies , and you ?
but a good movie is always good .	i have seen a couple versions of that movie . its a great story
i work in the movies as well .	i have never watched it , maybe i should start !
yes it is neat , i stunt double , it is so much fun and hard work .	that is a good occupation . i would do that if i needed to work .
nice , i only have one parent so now i help out my mom .	yes , i am pretty lucky to get to work with her .
she raised me right , i am just like her .	do you have more than one mom ?
now that i am older home depot is my toy r us .	my dad was very busy , i wish we had time for stuff like that
i am doing great . just relaxing with my two dogs .	i am good just working on my car and you ?
that is neat . what kind of volunteer work do you do ?	i still live at home , actually . i spend a lot of time working on my mustang .
good for you . do you like vintage cars ? i have two older mustangs .	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
cars are my thing . vintage cars . i love working on them . wrestling ? do you enjoy it ?	what kind of music do you like ? i love country .
i did not think about the crowd aspect of wrestling . i do not like crowds .	yes . i do not like country though .
i agree . working out is a great way to burn off steam . do you like country music ?	i like to work out myself .
lol . she is more pop now . her old stuff was country . i like classic country .	i like newer stuff like taylor swift .
i love spending time with my family	i am well , so tell me about your family ?
so then have you ever been to disneyland ?	one of my children is 2 , and the other is 6 .
yes i love mickey mouse such a cute little rat	actually no , i prefer the scenic walk . and you ?
man your lucky i am a baby delivery nurse and the pay sucks	love listening to music . really like the rolling stones .
i have to walk 3 miles to work to save money everyday what do you do ?	i agree , that is way i spend so much time at school lol
your economic skills are amazing	i like to eat foods that are healthy .
i am a ok nurse i have dripped some babies though but i am getting better	very much so . it is a very rewarding career .
i am doing good . just sipping tea . what do you do for work ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i am sorry to hear that . what happened	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
so what do you do now for fun ? i like to read .	i wish i could help . what is your qualification ?
what kind of dogs do you have ?	i like to read books . you ?
i love reading . i have a big library at my house .	used books are the only thing i love to read a lot of .
i have a tough time hearing so reading is my happy place .	do you read at all ?
i work as a hearing impaired museum tour guide .	she is worse than my mother .
do you live in the sky ? i do . in the clouds .	what color would you dye it ?
i make time stop . i have a superpower . i am a super hero .	do you work yourself up ? i do it all the time .
i love living in the clouds the best . do you have powers ?	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
i do not like blood . i vomit .	no i do not . i think she is crazy .
i want to be a teacher when i grow up	that is horrible , testing on animals .
i am a girl . i do not give out my name .	my daughters name is adia lehay .
i like science and art .	haha my little girl is running around making it difficult
i am much more of a cat person actually	i do ! i have 2 cats
that is an adorable name for a turtle . i have 2 cats	you are not allergic to cats are you ? i have two fluffy ones .
snow and winter , named after my favorite season	the names are one , two , and three .
oh you are so young !	do you like dogs ? i have a dog name wonton .
i am an old woman . i won a gold medal in 1992	i am 18 . how old are you ?
no . i spend all of my money on hats ! i own over a thousand	yes ! whats your name ? you like prozac ? i invest so one day i will be rich .
that is great . do you have a lot ?	i have two cats too . i like cats more then dogs .
hi , i am doing pretty good these evening	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i actually have purple hair and i love it and enjoy watching war documentaries	i enjoy cooking . i volunteer at a soup kitchen
i have a bird and she loves cheeseburgers like me , my favorite	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
probably not but a bite here and there i think is okay	pets are nice . the owner at the soup kitchen i volunteer at has one .
i do love the holidays i volunteer a soup kitchen during the holiday season	i really love the feeling of the holidays .
oh man sorry about that , i am 33 and love giving back i grew up poor	well , 7 year old person , do not grow up . life sucks .
oh wow , i can imagine it was a very hard time	poor you . i feel sorry
yes it really did , that is why i enjoy y volunteer work	glad you did not . you come on strong , i like it
good ! you ! celebrating with fellow centenarians	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
that sounds like fun . i like wine and dancing too !	do you still play ? i love to go to games .
awesome ! walking like that you might live forever like me ! !	you should try to exercise . it helps give you clarity .
you sound very like minded , just add some wine	i would rather read a good book . you seem nice .
fermented . i prefer well aged and fermented . i could bathe in it !	never had blue wine , is it expensive ?
i think i should go grab a bottle now and get some dancing music on	never had blue wine , is it expensive ?
yes indeed . being a centenarian you learn to appreciate these things	that would be exciting . whats your favorite drink ?
only if i can get a ride . i am very old and cannot drive	no , i m fine in the daylight
how nice . you must love kids .	i am far too old for that
would you like to know the secret to living as long as i have ?	understandable . i have two dogs , they are like kids sometimes .
drinking wine , and dancing in the moonlight .	yes i should that would be good for me .
doing both of those things has helped me make it to my 100th birthday .	i would rather watch television .
i may be old , but i am stronger than i look !	as long as your under 50 , i would say you are doing good !
women were not even allowed to vote when i was a child .	i think i saw that on a famous tv show .
lots of things have changed . i remember when televisions were not a common household item .	i think it is something that just happens with age . how are you doing today ?
hello . how are you ? my pet turtle and i are sitting here .	yeah i have a pet turtle and a hamster
mommy says to pick up toys . i do not like to . i want to play dolls !	it is a good afternoon . i am fine , how bout yourself ?
i want to go next door and play with my best friend , not work !	all work and no play ! any animals or children ?
shame on you ! mommy says you should not gamble !	my friends we go gambling often i have a bit of a problem .
no she did not ! i am telling my mommy on you !	she cheats . can you make her love you and steal her from me ?
but i want to play dollies with my best friend !	she must want your room then . . . lol
well i do not wanna play with you either !	really ? even as a pet ?
i am sorry ! do not be mad at me !	i do not think i would either . its risky !
i completely get it . my mom is way too traditional for me !	i am doing good ! what is your father ?
i understand . when do you think you might be able to move ?	do you have a pool ?
i do . i coach swimming at the pool near my house .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i am still in school . i cannot move until i finish my degree	not planning on it but parents are pushing it .
i want to be a computer programmer . are you in school ?	i study music . mostly death metal .
that sounds interesting . do you like it ?	i am still in school .
they are great . i really like the challenge . what do you want to teach ?	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
three more years . i feel like i wil never get out . how about you ?	i will graduate in september and get a teaching job by august of next year .
things are so strict . my family is from india , so they just do not get it .	our dad does of course , you should study computer science when you are older !
i very rarely speak to people billy , because i am so famous	i am a video game tester .
i am working on a robot so i can have company that does not annoy me .	i am a video game tester .
i helped design starcraft . do you have time to play games without the cow	i have a pet cow . it is unusual i know .
i do twitch streaming for fun , so we do not have much in common do we ?	i enjoy country sometimes . what do you drive ?
i like pizza , one thing in common . i live inland because i am allergic to water	pizza is yum . i eat a lot of pizza when i work late on an it project .
very carefully , did you get flooded in texas ?	i build drones and get paid for it !
good ! i have not seen a person in 5 years , have my stuff delivered	oh do not i know it . have you been affected by recent hurricanes ? flooding ?
hi ! i am an olympic gymnast , i do not read much .	i love to read books . i spend a lot of my time reading .
yes , i have . i picked up a lovely yellow blouse there .	well no , i just travel a lot . do you ?
i have another two years before i can retire from gymnastics .	yes all the time since i retired .
i would like to go to culinary school , i am still young .	i will not . only have a few more years until retirement !
i mainly cook italian , and garlic bread .	what do you plan to do when you graduate ? will you travel ? any grandiose dreams ?
i would love to be a pastry chef , i make earl grey shortbread a lot .	i would love to travel as well .
i put it in the shortbread .	i also bake , maybe some salmon or yellowtail .
hi i enjoy disney world and go every year	i have been doing it since i was 13
that is a good band . i love mickey mouse	who is your favorite character ?
i am also in the 3rd grade	i used to listen to his music all the time in high school !
no , i never have been . i like to go to the playground with friends	disney world they have lots of options to move around the park
i also like frozen the movie and sing a long with it .	family is everything , the older i get the more special it becomes
that is awesome to hear !	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
no , mom said i cannot have pets when i have my own place i can .	i have a dog and cat . i adopted my dog when he was still a puppy
i have a sister who is 10 years older than me	no . i have one sister . she sings first grade songs . you live at home ?
i am well friend . looking for new employment at the moment .	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
a writer . i am currently an er doctor .	i am looking for a job . . . was hoping you could help me out .
a man had his throat slit in a home invasion	oh yeah , i saw that on the news .
i have a daughter who people say is a child prodigy	ll ! i can see that happening .
math ! i hate it ! lol . do you have children ?	she is very kind and smart .
that is nice . what is your favorite movie ?	no kids myself just the 20 in the classroom but i love them . i write . you ?
mine is friday ! although i do love clueless too !	i like mystery movies the best
oh i hope so ! that would be awesome .	they would love it ! you watch movies ?
i am busy studying psychology for my graduate school class . you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
sounds cool ! i could be your dog walker when you are busy .	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
i love the outdoors . i can survive in the wilderness for weeks	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
did your parents teach you to survive like mine did ?	so you read a lot . do you spend time outdoors ?
i may have . what is it called ?	i think i have seen that . it was inspiring .
i love that show ! i watch it between studying .	i heard about that but have not read it . what is it about ?
that must have been hard . my parents were always hiking with me .	did he recently graduate ? i wonder if we went to school together
it was fun . probably why i became a dog walker	its alright , he was a good dog we enjoyed each other . are you on lunch ?
hello ! how has your day been ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i only eat kosher foods	hi , its going well and you ?
i like kosher salt a lot	i like it as well .
i like kosher salt more then regular salt	that is really healthy . i wish i had time to do that
you must be a hot milf	yes , i have to have salt on everything
i like your music a lot	i like all types of music .
i love my girl taylor	i like all types of music .
i know i love you too	i never heard of her .
i am a recording engineer myself . currently living in california	hello , are you married or have kids ?
that sounds fun . i would rather be inside though .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
no one you know probably . the market was dead last year unfortunately .	i build models . airplanes , house , cars , shopping centers , etc .
i love car racing . i am not crazy about lawyers though .	i like mexican , my favorite thing to eat is tune .
maybe he is the one that my ex left me for .	yeah , and quite not interested to be honest .
i do not think so . i own my own studio and she tried to take it .	yes . i think everyone has that one ex .
no she likes lies and cheating . lol	yes . i think everyone has that one ex .
i am 46 with kids , maybe she did not like that .	yes . i think everyone has that one ex .
my name is kelly . i am well . how are you ?	hello there . i am doing pretty well and you ?
i am so sorry to hear that . my father also passed away . he drove for nascar .	sad to hear that . i thought you said you worked too much though ?
i thank him for his service .	you are a very forgiving person . not sure i could be that forgiving .
i play with my german shepherd named barnaby . he is my baby .	i like to work on cars and to travel
i played softball years ago . i am too busy working for the us postal service .	he is a baseball player , very good too .
i live in the southwest and i am deathly afraid of scorpions . not a good mix .	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
it is . i do like it here aside from that .	yes ! it is so annoying .
it is hot . but thankfully not humid today .	its pretty humid .
hello . pretty good , thanks . and yourself ?	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
cool ! do you spend a lot of time biking ?	i am fine , and you ? do you like musicians ? i am one .
i love playing folk music . i actually hope to be a professional musician someday	i play music because my job is being a musician .
i can play the guitar and the piano and i also like to sing .	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
i m not a big drinker either . do you have a job ?	i always sing songs very loudly .
nice ! i work as a custodian . not too glamorous but it pays the bills haha	i play in a rock band for a living .
exactly . do you have other hobbies besides biking ?	but music is fun but not enough money in it unless you make it big .
hey ! i am from nyc what about you ?	i am from los angeles and you ?
so what brings you around here ? are you here for work ?	i am from canada . i am not a student , are you ?
oh okay . may i ask what your occupation is ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i went to college for chemistry , but i actually work in a bookstore now .	i work and go to school , i travel a lot for work .
i do not care for fashion as much as you dislike reading haha	do not like reading ?
must be a very strong dislike then . i actually have a strange disdain toward the color orange	did you finish high school ? i ended up dropping out .
as a kid i was always bothered by this bright orange lamp my parents had	i love the color orange and red
oh man must have been traumatizing . what do you do to relieve stress ?	the parents were not too happy but it was super funny .
great , how are you doing today ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
watching horror movies is my favorite . how about you ?	i like to see movies
i see . what do you do for work	i like romantic comedies or action movies .
i used to work in hr , but now i stay home with my son .	i work in a school
he is in junior high . do you have any kids ?	he is in his teens . how old are you ?
what do you want to do ?	yes , i have one boy and you ? they like movies ?
that sounds nice . do you have any family line of work that you can get in to ?	i am trying to get into the film industry .
hello . all is moving great . and you ?	hello its going good . . . u ?
alright . i work in it . if you do not mind , what work are you into ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
the economic situation seem to be gradually picking up though	i do not currently work .
since you are addicted to internet , do you watch a lot of american sports ?	you must do a lot online .
ok . do you like dogs ?	yea i do . as much as role playing
do you think that the internet is pretty safe for children of late ?	i like dogs but i do not own any . what is your favorite breed ?
ok . speaking about work , i have been at the same company for about 15 years	its not that i like it , it is necessary .
i kind of wonder why employees are not keen on loyalty these days	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
i am thinking about my upcoming retirement . how about you ?	hi . trying to enjoy everything about life , since there , sadly , is not much left .
very cool . my kids are grown . i am already 60 years old .	i do not work , just travel .
how old is your youngest ?	you should visit one day .
i work as a librarian , but i am going to retire in the next couple of years .	i am retired and love to travel quite often .
did you stop when your eldest was born ?	do you like it ? i quit my job once just to travel .
why did you have to ?	do you like it ? i quit my job once just to travel .
do your children like any interesting activities ?	kids make is all worth it , right ?
do you like to travel ?	i am retired and love to travel quite often .
hi there . hmm i am not familiar with any . which area are you looking ?	no , i am a person in a home
maybe you can expand your options if you find another career .	do not you understand ? i do not care where you work . i will pay you .
congratulations . i work in construction , started when i was 16 . it is great money .	then maybe i will apply !
wow that is ambitious . i hope you succeed . personally i prefer mexican food over burgers .	there are a cool band .
that sounds delicious . what type of music do you like ?	i agree . i prefer tacos to fish anyway .
nice . i listen to a lot of aerosmith , they are my favorite .	tupac is my favorite . he was taken too soon .
great song . how long have you worked for burger king ?	todays music ai not got the same soul . ll . so what are your dreams ?
do you know the game starcraft ? i helped designing it !	hello . how are you doing today ? i am good .
i usually stream the game on my twitch channel	i would not doubt it !
i am making this robot right now that looks like me !	yeah ! i have been trying to create a startup for a new game
i am kind of a nerd , i do not go out much and do not socialize .	i like exercise , you should try it
the worst part about my life is that i am allergic to water	that is why i am a gamer .
i have to drink another substance that contains particles of hydrogen and oxygen	i drink water most of the time .
yeah i have a cat , how about you ?	no , i do not . i keep to myself mostly .
that sounds awesome , but i have to go now , gotta start streaming . see ya !	yap , i have a cat named lil uzi vert . you ?
what state are you ? i am in california , age 46	hi doing great , how about you ?
i am good , and you ? i stay home all day and i like it	yep . i am here . how are you
i love to go to church too , it help me deal with my ex . .	my ex husband was a dog person . me not so much .
she cheated me and stay with a lawyer	do not call him ! ex are in the past for a reason .
it takes the power of god to change people , my kids are great	oh wow why not divorce her you are crazy
me too , i am a single dad , i do recordings in my studio	exes should not matter anymore but i understand where you are coming from .
what do you do ? do you want to meet me ?	music . i love all kinds of music .
i record soft rock and light jazz	i listen to music most of the day
i am going to have pizza after meditation	hello , sounds yummy ! i am doing great , you ?
it is like going to a peaceful place	i work as a yoga instructor . do you have any favorite musician ?
i used to like to talk	i like to travel . i have been up north to toronto twice .
i have been silent for months now	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
something like that . where do you live	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i am not allowed to vocalize	yea , i want to be speaker , people say i talk too much .
i am thinking about it	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i wish for world peace	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i am good ! just finished working . you ?	doing well , thank you . living on a farm now .
it was tiring . trying to get the fields harvested for winter .	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
we grow corn and soybeans at my parents farm . what dog do you have ?	i work on my farm and that is my livelihood .
cute ! where do you hike ? my pet will not travel . she is a cow	he does country i know his music . do you have kids ?
no i live in the middle of no where . miles of country .	no , i live a simple country life .
pennsylvania . amish country . i feel out of place driving my big truck next to buggies	i live in colorado , what about you ?
yeah . that is why i blast my country music . they hear me coming !	what car do you have ? we just have trucks on the ranch i live at
oh wow ! i never did that before ! sounds fun !	that is interesting , a real life cow boy !
i would never do that . i hate my grey dog barnaby and scorpions .	haha . what kind of car do you drive ?
keep trying . i like grey vans but a nascar car killed my daddy .	wow . that is crazy . what kind of car do you drive ?
he does . barnaby is grey , a german shepherd and he hates scorpions too .	haha okay , fair enough . what was your first car ?
mom says we are going to sue nascar for killing daddy .	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
sure , but you have to get in line . my grey dog barnaby is dying too .	i can give you lots of coffee to make you happy .
he can have mine . barnaby needs a new home .	i still love my dog son . he is just nuts .
oh okay . does he play with scorpions or dogs ?	maybe he will let you borrow one of his .
great ! my dad died in a scorpion pit while driving a nascar car . you dance ?	oh yes . he is creepy . great show .
good you ? coloring my adult coloring book , do you like them ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
well how rude of you . where do you live ?	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
glad we do not live close . i am from a rural part of the u . s . , we farm .	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
that is cool . do you like hockey ?	i have 1 dog who live on our farm . what about you ?
i do too . especially nhl . have any pets ?	i used to love hockey . i do not watch it anymore . for some reason
i have one dog , he is a german shepherd .	i have no cats . what kind of dogs do you have
fruits , what about you ?	i do not , but i love fresh veggies .
they are decent ! my favorite is strawberries .	i definitely love the colors , yes .
i am great ! just been looking on twitter at news	hi , its going well and you ?
tell me about yourself ?	i think there are . blogger ? lol
depends if you win or not lol	i do not have any hobbies . just devoted to my work but does not pay off
i enjoy green living and just put solar panels on roof	if you have a patio , you can use it
yummy , i love cookouts . i am involved women rights movement	you must do a lot online .
i work from home doing internet searches	true . i am also a feminist . a vegan as well
it has its benefits . i have plenty time tend my organic garden	you must do a lot online .
they are so healthy for you	what kinds of vegetables do you grow ?
good , how are you tonight ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
awesome , what are you playing ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
i like country too ! i am kinda tired tonight from a long day at the shipyard .	i like folk music cause . . that is normal in the navy apparently . . .
i am newly retired from the navy . i am a captain	i am in the navy .
that is amazing ! living the dream huh ?	what branch of the military are you in ?
i hope you do ! my passion is making a difference in the world .	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
do you volunteer with any charities	fabulous more people need to volunteer .
i highly encourage you to , especially after you make it big !	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
i am doing well today	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i like the drums a lot	yes , i do . do you sing or play or just listen ?
i can tell you what i do not like	i like music , play the violin , and like to watch my koi pond . you ?
school . i really really do not like it	i do not really have a favorite . you ?
at least we are on the same page	school is not the only important thing in life . they should understand that
i do not like people	yes . i love giving back to the community i grew up in .
i do . they are quiet and peaceful .	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
i do not like people	i like animals and nature as a whole , how about you
yes i do after all i am a engineer .	no , i prefer playing on the computer .
i am actually a recording engineer . do you have kids ?	i am a video game tester .
oh ok . i am a single dad . and my recording artist died last year . bad luck !	there are a cool band .
i am fine . he just had a n accident here in california .	no , i drive around my black car , its a lease .
that is cool . i am 46 how about you ?	ha sounds much more exciting than my work .
. oh wow . are you retired ?	i am 22 and still living at home . i do not drive . i was in two accidents .
oh i have never heard of that .	i do but not professionally just for fun .
oh ok , i guess i do not know much on the music side .	i work online as a professional gamer , which has been a great career
that sounds awfully familiar to me .	hi there ! nice to meet you . yes , i have four dogs .
i football is the best . go alabama tide !	no , i am not really in to games .
i have a brother and 3 sisters	i do not play any sports . can you tell me more about sports you play ?
no we are not , i am more closer to my dogs honestly	no , no siblings . you ?
ok i will be sure too	i like dogs but i do not own any . what is your favorite breed ?
i already told that to you	dogs , dogs , and more dogs . i love them
ok then . well its been nice chatting with you	we have a bunch of dogs i sure care a lot about them . do you like dogs ?
thought this was over , guess not	yes i am about to leave to go now actually
my favorite type of music is from the south	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i am the head worker of a small store	what does sahm . country mean ?
my store sells everything you could possibly need !	what kind of store is it ?
there are weights for sure !	as long as i would not gain any weight !
i am not sure ? how old are you ? ! ?	most definitely , you must be quite short then !
i have a very nice car ! it is a pathfinder by the company nissan !	as long as your under 50 , i would say you are doing good !
i got it this year ! i love it	but was it a toyota truck ?
i have not it sounds interesting	i have two dogs ! they enjoy running around my farm
cool ! my only pet is a cow	the only thing is that i cant do country music . it makes me cringe
yes my parents are , i work for them	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
i live line dancing to country music , that is all i listen too	i like art , animals and dancing and especially country music yee haw .
cool ! i am always playing country in my big truck !	chemistry background will be very useful then , what do you do for fun ?
lol chemistry seems like an interesting career .	my lab work depends on it !
cool , do you like to read ?	i meet well educated people at the book store . do you like to read ?
awesome , i hardly ever read .	i have never read it . read something else !
exhausted ! i was out clubbing all weekend . my legs are tired from grinding .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
are you ok ? i know chemistry . i could make you an aspirin !	why are you so busy ?
wow , good for him . i just work in a bookstore . . .	i am trying to make myself study for an exam . what genre do you like to read ?
i majored in chemistry so i already have enough knowledge for a lifetime .	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
no . all of the girls here wear orange . i hate orange .	no i have a girlfriend silly
wow that is saucy . just one rule wear anything you want but orange things .	maybe . are you married ? kids ?
i am already deep in student loans , so i do not care !	yes ! that would be perfect for me ! what is your favorite color ?
about 15k . i spend most of that on weekend clubs and raves though .	and all the loans for college for all those classes .
hey , i am in high school and i want to be a physical therapist .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
awesome ! i make all as in school so i could help you !	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
yes , i love music ! so we can definitely rock out .	definitely rock ! do you have any kids ?
cool ! i am a homecoming queen that loves horses .	right ? they are the best ! lol
yes , i set a goal to actually run a k this year too !	yes , i do . and thanks ! what do you want to do when you grow up ?
i am sure you do ! i bet it is fun there !	what do u like to do to stay physical active ?
i just might do that ! i want to achieve my goal of running a k !	that is for sure . running around the pasture is almost an obstacle course
i hope so ! after i get out of high school i want to run more !	good luck ! if you want it bad enough , you will definitely succeed !
i understand because i have dogs too .	i am sorry to hear that . do you have any children ?
i hate dogs but love to knit its kind of my passion	i have two dogs and one cat .
you are just scared of dying like me . that is why only love baking cookies .	will you bake for me ? i could take some to church
sure . . . i am heading back home to the country so i can enter a bake sale .	i see . i like to bake .
i do not think we should be friends	i do like to bake . especially dog treats for my two small dogs .
i just wanted to stop talking to you really	yes , i think we may have some things in common .
rules ? what rules are you talking about dude , no cookies for you	i am sorry , i do not understand your question statement .
i love cookies and bake sale but you are freaking me out .	yeah seriously why not with whomever you imagine sounds good to me
hi there , how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i teach in the summers ?	hello , i am doing well . i just finished walking my dogs
does she own dogs like me ?	yes , i am pretty lucky to get to work with her .
i always go to church	i have a daughter , so when i am not working i am taking care of her .
i hold an outdoor class	elementary school , actually ! i love kids
i teach walking and hiking mostly	education , my goal is to be a kindergarten teacher .
i do not really like labels	i am a personal trainer . i love to stay active . what about you ?
do you have any pets ?	lol that is true . what do you teach ?
well . better now that i am in remission . how are you ?	hello there sweetie . i am well . how about yourself ?
so sorry to hear that . she is in my thoughts .	that is sweet , congratulations ! where will you ask her ?
i have many kids and grandkids to keep me busy . how about you ?	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
how wonderful . life is precious spend as much time with them as possible .	i would love to have kids some day . any grandkids yet ?
that sounds like fun . i enjoy making clothes for my family .	you have had a long life . how many children do you have ?
helping others makes life meaningful and i cherish it more now .	i also love to sew .
too bad my cell phone broke . i would love to text you about my finances .	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
great we should exchange emails !	absolutely . i really hope your situation gets better financially .
i just watched snoop and martha	aw that is nice . i never had a dog . i bet its awesome .
i love to eat vegetables and unique things	lol what really ? how ? lol
awesome , i just came here from another country	i like everything b l u e
do you like adventure i do	it is a great place to go when the weather stinks !
awesome does he like to go to germany	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
maybe he can skydive to see a better view	haha i bet its beautiful . any hobbies ?
i want to but no highest i got was rollercoasters	lol ! yes , i can see it !
hello i am sara who are you	watching it with your cats ? do they like goku ?
i am 7 and i have powers that no one knows about	hello , i am mia . how are you doing ?
i can make the whole world pause ! freeze time	what animals do you use in your stories ?
awe i love christmas you do not like it ?	if the universe did not think you could handle it , it would not happen . ya know ?
awe i am lonely a lot too i live in a orphanage	i do not believe in holidays
do you have room for me ?	i probably should there is got to be nicer people in the world
wow that is a huge house	i live in a 3 bedroom house .
you would not be scared of my super powers	lol , we need to live in one house , maybe smaller
not bad at all , rain got in the way though . how are you ?	hello i am good ? do you work
ma . i was gonna finish a roof today . at least the cats will not miss me	it seems like its going to rain today
ooh , if one of mine got out i would panic .	do you live in a big house for the cats ? i have a house and a yard
i will say , hope you find her soon . so otherwise how is your day ?	you mean clean houses ? you like it ?
i am terrible at that game , give me a hammer not a paddle	it is going pretty good . yours ?
i build houses , sometimes i fix them , have my dads genes .	i most like to create houses out of matches .
close enough i suppose , my dad put a hammer in my hand at 2 .	you are lucky he makes so much money so you do not have to work !
i am angry . my parents keep making me go to school even though i hate it	hi ! i am great ! i just graduated highschool ! how about you ?
dose your bookstore sell p o box ? i know some do and i love it .	i am glad you are taking that in school !
i do not have that many friends to play with anyways . how old are you ?	yeah you mentioned that . sorry to here !
12 . i want to leave school as soon as i am old enough .	at 35 , you are middle age , did you know that ?
i stay away from other girls that are jealous of my long red hair and blue eyes	no competition then . pets ? i have a dog .
oh cool . have you done anything else fun ?	what do you think of fun colored hair ?
i do not bleach my hair . mine is natural and goes down to my waist	. . they have the best colored hair !
hi there i am from america but my family moved down to south america	i am from los angeles and you ?
i used to live in minnesota	are you going to college ? i go to a local one .
uh i have no idea	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
ok sure i want to make computer like my dad used to	i would like to visit once i graduate .
i had a friend named noah we were friends from ever since we met at 1	our dad does of course , you should study computer science when you are older !
ya not as much since we moved here	nah , i wish i did . he was brilliant
it is not so fun i have 2 friend who speak a different langues	we grew up together . where are you from ?
hmong and french my dad can translate because he speaks hmong and english	i only speak english and no foreign language .
sure . do you like to dance ?	hello , do you work or go to school ?
what was your favorite subject in school ?	where did you go to school ?
i like math too . chemistry was my favorite subject in school .	oh i am also in grad school . rather just finished .
yeah , i have been for the last 5 years .	no , i am a student .
i live in chicago . what about you ?	i live in nyc how about you ?
manhattan does have good pizza .	i live in nyc how about you ?
i am not a fan of sushi , i like mexican food .	do you have a love for food ? mine is sushi and pizza
does everyone in manhattan have good fashion ?	is it mexican ? i love mexican food .
hello . i am leigh . i am at a park i have never been to .	hi , i am a violin play and yourself ?
not sure . i was just exploring the city and found it . how old are you ?	i do not know what that is .
i am 34 and i play many instruments . are you in band ?	i am 20 . how old are you ?
i play trombone , alto sax , baritone , and trumpet . you ?	i play music professionally , a violinist in the local orchestra .
i do not run . i am constantly moving at the shelter i work at though .	yes , i play rock but still take piano and violin . what do you cook ?
no ! i will start violin as a new hobby , like my father .	yes , definitely , i will sure try !
it is not for everyone . my dad made his living . i will try .	i used to play the violin . its a hard instrument !
i did not go . who did you go with ?	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
oh cool . pole dancing ? well i am only 4 and enjoy coloring .	i have a little dog , you ?
my mom is a pole dancer . my pet turtle is my best friend .	i do not think there is any such thing .
ya they live next door . and my dolls . i live a sheltered life .	no . just a different one . who would you be ?
like in the clouds ? i do not really get to see sunlight .	yes , i do . and thanks ! what do you want to do when you grow up ?
were you a slave ? sometimes i have to food found in alleys .	i understand . it is difficult all around .
do you own fully automatic rifles then ?	that would be horrific !
would not that just be your personal view ?	no , guns can be dangerous , and you really have to know how to use them !
my guns have dolls . some of them would not be alive today if they did not .	yes , would love to be that . so you have any pets ?
hello , leon . my dogs and i are doing well .	hello , i am doing good and you ?
oh no . i go to the gym a lot . the treadmill keeps my mind off things .	you mean , she left you again ? ! !
you are most welcome . the rowing machine is nice too .	what keeps you so busy ? as an athlete i spend my time at the gym .
sadly , no . my dogs and i are in ohio .	i live in california .
oh no . i am moving soon as well . due to personal reasons .	yea , i ponder that as well , i think i might have to move .
i have a springer spaniel and a lab . do you have pets ?	dogs , dogs , and more dogs . i love them
that is for sure . what kind of music ?	my pets are two dogs .
great just got back from the gym i go twice a day every day .	i am great , just left the gym .
bummer my fav exercised are the treadmill and rowing machine	time consuming ? i workout 4 times a week so i have no time .
i have to go to the gym a lot because i eat a lot	you have a very busy life . i hope you get to have vacations
cool i eat a lot when i am bored . pets ?	i eat terrible food always but i stay fit
i have 2 dogs . i should take them walking instead of eating .	my pets are two dogs .
i have been thinking of growing my hair long it is so short .	have a dog so i do get exercise walking him .
yeah , that is a nice thought . do you have kids ?	that is a good idea . staying is shape is important .
well , you will have more free time without them anyway .	no kids as of yet .
great thanks . what are you doing ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
hat game ? i love games as well , being 13 and all .	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
i have an xbox too . my older brother never will let me play though .	do you play games or work ?
no , and i cry about it whilst i am on the bus for school . very sad .	i understand that . i am in school right now .
they try to help me . they also help me with my math , i am terrible at that .	well i do not think so but all my friends say i suck
i prefer soccer , but what music do you like ?	i like soccer , of course . not much into music though .
do you like soccer like i do ? i play every weekend .	music . i love all kinds of music .
nice , my big brother plays soccer with me sometimes .	i play soccer on the weekends
no i do not but i love dancing wildly to party music . do you own any pets ?	yes , i do . do you sing or play or just listen ?
cool ! i own a dog too ! as well as a cat . do you have a favorite movie ?	yes , a cat and a dog . do you ?
that is cool , but i do not really like sci fi . do you read sci fi ?	i am not into movies . do you have favorites ?
what kind of supernatural romances ?	i read a lot of fiction . mostly sci fi
cool ! do you like parties ?	mostly sci fi dystopian novels . does your spouse share your interest ?
awesome ! i love parties . i go wild at them .	i always sing songs very loudly .
ok ok . what do you do besides play guitar ?	do you ever play at parties ?
interesting ! is that hard to do ?	i play guitar and lead vocals .
i am well ! just got back from taking a walk .	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
oh that sounds fun . i like dogs .	that is cool too , i walk dogs for extra cash .
i love hamburgers and french fries , but not soda . are you married ?	i like dogs ! and i like hiking .
i am married and we just bought a house .	no kids , i am single .
yes it is nice . is kayaking dangerous ?	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
i see . what did you major in ?	yes , the sound is the best . i love walking along the water at night .
that sounds like a lot of work .	i think psychology . what was yours ?
education is something that no one can ever take away .	really ? what did you graduate with ?
good today . just cooking some mexican food . i cooking but am not very good .	hi ! ! i am great thanks ! how about you ?
i inherited some money and bought a yacht to travel , i try different foods traveling	love mac and cheese , oh and tacos . i love fish tacos .
cheeseburgers are great , i try all kinds of foods everywhere i go , gotta love food .	being poor i have tried a lot of ways to cook for cheap .
i like travel logs and have been all over the world for years since high school	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
i need a job and will put my yacht up for rent . i could teach .	are you currently retired ? lol
economics would be my first choice .	no idea . i wish i had a good plan .
i would try . what hobbies do you have now that you are retired ?	i would like to be a teacher someday .
i like cooking shows . i should probably take some classes to improve .	i am retired and love to travel quite often .
yo whats up my man	i can only speak english and spanish . what do u do for work ?
you sound like you are trying to rush through your character	i can only speak english and spanish . what do u do for work ?
not very ethical in my opinion	yes , i speak french , english and arabic so we get asked to different countries
i play music and i rock	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
my favorite word is trabajo	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
i am going to study french next	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
i also study ebonics and sh	spanish is actually already one of my languages
no you should do that	maybe music will help them learn a new language .
i had surgery a week ago now i have stranger powers	hi , its going well . and you ?
i am just a boy with a heart outside my body	where did you move to ?
had a brain transplant now i move objects with my mind	yeah i would say a little unique , and nothing wrong with that .
your son sounds really awesome	have you considered , maybe he is possessed ?
wow congrats that is so cool	well , that is good . he is mad , cause i accidentally got pregnant .
i bet , are you banking on a girl or boy ?	you are lucky he makes so much money so you do not have to work !
yeah nice job getting all those blue sentences in !	yes . i am glad you still have them both in your life .
yes i am thanks so much !	yea , and i was not feeling it today .
oh my i just love country music ! do you ?	hi ! i am good . you ?
solar panels rock ! i have actually met the taylor swift herself	yes . do you drive a car ?
that is great . i manage a convenience store	yes ! do you sell that ?
oh of course ! i drive a pathfinder , nissan , i need a new one	you must do a lot online .
i did not know there was a twitter contest	that is a great idea ! ! ! yes !
yes i am , i am 40 years old	yes i am . to the sweetest woman in the world .
are you a woman ? if hair is your thing yay you	i am a woman , that is good to know !
oh i love frogs , and frog legs	well i was always raised to be a proper lady so yes . .
good . watching the race . and you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
oh man . how did that happen ?	hi how are you doing tonight i am fine thank you .
crazy . what do you do to stay happy ?	how serious is your condition ?
what ! i just need some good tacos and nascar .	i love taking care of people , something in that field . you ?
the guys i work with make some great ones on fridays .	i can not stand tacos ! other mexican food is ok though . what is your favorite ?
i work in construction . started when i was 16 .	i am a construction worker . how about you ?
i think that mind you have can make you more money .	what is your favorite kind of food ? i love mexican food .
take you away from where ?	well do not do that . just go get some mexican food . always makes me happy
nice ! i just like to eat food haha .	i love to cook , so i will be doing a lot of that .
i try to eat healthy but it does not help when i can not cook well	i love to cook , so i will be doing a lot of that .
i been across the globe for years eating food and now i am fat .	i bet that will help lots of people in the world .
i will rent you my yacht for free for helping !	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
sure ! the last time i ran was when i was 13 which was like 10 years ago !	that is the plan . so , do you like cooking ?
i can cook for us after our run . i need the practice haha !	ah yes ! that is a good plan
how about a salad then ?	that does not seem very healthy . haha . i will have to go to one soon .
what is your favorite dressing ?	that sounds like a good recipe to try ! have you tried it ! ?
hello , i like wine and coffee .	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
i coach little league and have five boys , i need both to help me deal with them .	do you have any children ? i do not have any .
i am stuck with mine awhile , along with my mini van .	do you want to have your own kids eventually ?
maybe you should find a second job .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
age is only a number . you are only as old as you allow yourself to be .	i was raised in a baseball house . converted my husband to a baseball fan !
it is never too late to learn . i am going to photography school .	yes i totally agree with you .
then it was not your calling , it is mine .	oh okay . i guess that makes sense . so you like photography ?
no , you find your own dream .	you ought to go for your dreams and passion .
i am doing well . about to go to my job at burger king .	hello , i am well . where do you live ?
i am only 19 and work the grill . i just want to have fun with friends .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i want to move out . i am drug and booze free though .	how about school ? do you go to school ?
i play music . i am going to be a rockstar .	i go out to bars with friends a lot . what about you ?
scottish black metal . i play electric bag pipes .	rock mostly . how about you ?
yeah , i have videos of me on there . i invented them . they are sweet .	no , they are still out there . . . believe !
my name is cletus huckleberry . nice to meet you .	yeah , its a weird name .
i am well , how are you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
cool . so what do you do for fun ?	i am doing very well , thank you . getting ready to walk the dog .
i am a dj . really into eighties hip hop	i love to teach music to young children . teaching is such a great career .
nope no kids or pets . what about you ?	yes , i have five children and a dog .
that is a pretty big family . . must be hectic	that is a big household , we just have the dogs ! !
well at least he makes a lot of money lol	why not ? kids are pretty cool , how old are you
i like to dance and cook . you ?	i draw and like gadgets . you ?
i am from boston massachusetts	i am from boston , ma
what sports is he into ?	i listen to it through the computer and any other form of music listening
i like swimming . i coach locally .	i love swimming . do you like to listen to music while you swim ?
a guy . where abouts are you ?	i m playing pool . love it ! you ?
i d love to see america . i hope to work there one day . i live in india .	i live in hawaii . it is gorgeous ! !
the humidity is lethal . texas gets pretty hot though doesn t it ?	hawaii is beautiful . i have to go someday . when would you relocate ?
wow . you sound cool . i code and listen to music . boring life .	its pretty humid .
my programming skills will need some work , i m still studying .	i listen to heavy metal when i am programming . helps me focus .
my mother thinks i should just get married and stay in india .	absolutely . you sound like an ambitious person .
very nice ! my boyfriend and i move into our new on next tuesday	hi ! what kind of pictures do you take ?
do you like photography ? i do it as a side business .	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
i teach fourth graders , most nights i need a drink .	i take photos and film . do you teach at a private school ?
do you have a girlfriend ? my boyfriend says i am always playing matchmaker .	i work two jobs ! i am a teacher spanish drawing classes .
what subject do you teach ? i teach history .	i also play in my school band .
how many languages do you speak ? i am up to three .	i take photos and film . do you teach at a private school ?
i speak those and french . do you like red or silver ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i am more partial to the muted tones of each color .	i definitely love the colors , yes .
i am very well ! how are you ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i like listening to rap music	i am doing great how about yu ?
i understand . did you attend college ?	i rap for a barbershop quartet ?
i am a college student at a local university	i work part time as a music teacher . you ?
athletic training ! it is interesting	i am going to study music production in college .
wow ! wish i was your husband	any plans to have children ? how about pets ?
i love pizza , favorite food	you have kids ! i have one son . i quit after the first one . lol
ruff , hey ! ruff ruff . how are you ?	i am fine just relaxing with my dog named toto
nothing just singing and looking at my building blocks ! ruff	i like canines
not yet ! but i will be soon ! but i have to give up chocolate .	oh wow ! i have a eunice in my classroom . is she in 6th grade ?
wait . . . what ? i am confused . dogs ca not eat chocolate and i will be a dog soon .	i have seen them in chocolate and in hard candy .
i love snow , i can roll in it ! dogs can not go to disney ruff	ya sometimes you have to let it go !
maybe i can teach pluto abc song ! i want to be a dog just like him !	mickey ! he is such a cute thing . do you go to school ?
i do not know , what do you mean ? do you like chocolate ?	well , 7 year old person , do not grow up . life sucks .
good i live in ohio working as a doctor looking for a job in california	i am well , how about you ?
working from home would be nice . i am moving for my daughter , she is a prodigy .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
very nice i go to the park for that . do you like movies , my favorite is friday	what kind of movies do you like to watch ?
i wish i had more time for tv , what is your favorite show ?	i love to watch movies on friday nights .
walking dead is mine too . any hobbies ?	funny program , i even have my daughter watching it .
chasing my daughter around , i like to paint when i can .	i like to work on cars its fun
yes they are but they are worth it . do you have kids ?	my career right now is my kids . are you wanting to be an actress ?
sure thing . what is your job ?	hello , and yes i would love that .
wow , i am a dog walker . that is way cool	what is your job ? i am still in school .
yeah dogs are cool . i kayak too . do you have pets ?	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
yeah . what do you like to do ?	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
wow you must be brave	i like to read books . you ?
good idea , you sound like an amazing human	yeah , i read a lot a books about self improvement and determination .
makes sense , you would be a good role model . any children ?	yeah , i read a lot a books about self improvement and determination .
yes , a new little one on the way too	no , i am not ready for children how about you ?
i am doing very fine this afternoon . how about you ?	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
what are you going to school for ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
will you be driving to or living on campus ?	i am in school . what about you ?
what kind of music makes you feel good ?	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
i enjoy listening to classical music .	i love music . what is your favorite band ?
it depends on the particular sport .	i like sports and yes do you ?
i am more concerned with my religion .	i love to play games and ride horses
i am in a jail for kids	lol ! i am in cali right now . hope to move to canada soon .
i got caught shoplifting and they locked me up	i would not know about that , being from canada .
i am still a kid . i want to go back to school	no i am in high school . do you understand your feelings ?
i get out next month . my mom is visiting tomorrow	haha , yeah , detention would be pretty lame
do you work ? what do you do ?	i mean she should your her mom right ?
do you like working in the army ?	i study people like you . in and out of prison
i guess that made your decision to enlist easy	how long is there father deployed for ?
i have not given much thought to what to do when i get out .	i study people like you . in and out of prison
great ! relaxing , taking a break for a few . i was playing a video game .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i was playing fall out . what do you look like ? i m blonde thin .	right now nothing , play games . its annoying the computer is not faster !
i hope your youth was full of music . i love music .	i am a grey eyed blonde . what do you look like ?
me too , as i wear my favorite band t shirt s for inspiration	i sew things like kids outfits and shirts .
that s cute . my favorite band is fall out boy . yours ?	i collect shirts that have band logos on them . that is really all the shirts i have
i m in jersey . i m a runner . i have a marathon next weekend .	i am going to play video games later . what about you ?
i bet . what are you making ? i have a great pb cookie recipe .	i can imagine , definitely worth it though i bet .
1c pb , 1c sugar , 1 egg . mix and roll . bake for 10 12 mins .	i am not sure i have any ready to share yet .
i am the same way with rap	hi how are you doing ? i am fine .
i produce rap for people .	i like cats . do you ?
sure while riding in my honda civic	yes ! whats your name ? you like prozac ? i invest so one day i will be rich .
then we can celebrate with pizza	lol , i am not sure , but it sure is good . the best in the whole world .
right is it not the best ?	i want to also make dessert .
it is a great time of year	i wish it was winter already , my favorite season .
i play the piano sometimes	i go to music concerts and festivals all the time , except for rap
i do sometimes for fun	yes sometimes i do . i like listening to music
friend ye ? i hardly know ye . . .	hello , sure . why not ? where are you located ?
where do you live ? i am in cali .	are you kidding ? of course not .
my ex left me too . cheated on me as well .	oh live in cali . so are you single married ect ?
well i am an atheist so that was not a problem for me . but it sucked .	i believe . sorry . tell me about you , lay it out . all or nothing .
my ex left the kids . but some days i wish she had not . . .	that is too bad . i bet your kids would kove it .
do you like music ? i am in the industry .	ll , yes kids can be tiring . what things do you do for fun ?
i have a studio and i help people record music .	i do not do much i am a artist .
do you work in a nursing home ?	you seem quite focused on music .
hi ! i am andy .	good , hi there , i am bob .
really that is sad . i work as an elementary teacher .	hi there , i am bob .
great . my father was a teacher too so	in a school ? or privately
no he did not . he and i enjoyed time in the beach .	no , my dad taught me good music and good work ethics .
that is really amazing . i hope you do great . ahead .	hell . i enjoy sunsets too .
i have a dog whom i love . your fish seems amazing .	yes , i have 3 dogs , 1 cat , and 1 fish . how about you ?
i hope it will always be with you in rough times .	i do not have any pets , but i love dogs ! i teach at an elementary school .
i agree . they are great sushi	yeah you should have you eaten a lot of sushi
hi ! i do but i rarely have time to listen in between school and work .	no not really i like all music .
are you in school too ?	i am still in college , going to be a lawyer one day .
first year , i just moved here with my best friend for school too .	i also should have finished my degree by now , but it is taking a while .
so true ! so what do you do for a living ?	definitely . it would be nice to have a friend .
aside from nursing , i work at a bar to pay for school .	i work as a nurse . you ?
of course , it is like a live sociology class too .	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
i definitely agree ! good perspective . why do you not like mining ?	which subject would you like to hear more about ?
i am great , i hope you are doing well . where are you from ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i see . have you lived there for a long time ? we just recently bought a home	i am from boston , ma
that is very nice . life must be very relaxing outside the cities . do you have children ?	have you thought of adoption ?
i do not have any pets , but i may be interested in one	yes , i have three dogs . they are my babies .
i do not have any special interest in sports , do you have any favorite sports ?	football most of the time . .
i see , do you live in united states or canada ? i heard hockey is very popular there .	i use to watch hockey alot whats your favorite team ?
i live in canada , i moved here very recently . what do you do for a living ?	yea me neither , since i moved to canada .
i am good . just got back from some volunteering . how are you doing ?	hi ! ! ! i am wonderful . and yourself ?
i am an old retired guy , so i might be doing something wrong !	hello . busy , but good . you ?
that sounds like a nice time . i like to try to be active myself . i love walks .	do you like dogs ? i have a dog name wonton .
i used to be a gym teacher so i used to be quite fit !	it helps to reduce the distances and days you walk .
definitely ! although now that i am retired i find that i love eating cheeseburgers . . .	i also teach high schoolers . are you in high school ?
yup . a cheeseburger and a war documentary are my idea of a good saturday	ahh yes i agree . you need more support than that
that cant hurt either ! what else do you like to do ?	what do you like too cook ? kids are funny lol
that is just great . we need more educators like you in the system .	i play and teach as well . it is my passion .
i go to school . hate it ! will you be my friend ?	hi . go to school . but i am sad .
oh , i am not ! i am only 12 , though . will they like me ?	haha , are you in school ?
i do not like school at all . and gym is the worst !	i just focus on school . i get great grades . what about you ?
the boys pull my waist length red hair . that hurts !	but you can still practice to be the best !
no . i just cry out my blue eyes ! they all make fun of me .	i do not , i do teach kindergarten and i love it .
okay , thanks ! what do you like to do ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
better than kids , that is for sure !	i love to play with my dogs !
especially when you are 12 ! how old are you ?	kids are the worst sometimes ! just kidding . i would not know because i have dogs !
wee ! i have koi fish that the same color as my orange dress .	nope i only speak english .
great . i like hiking and need a new boyfriend as of yesterday .	i like to learn new languages . right now i speak english and french , looking to expand that .
he ate my fish that matched the color of my dress . bummer !	i am sorry , i do not understand your question statement .
oh , i could tell you stories . i turned 18 yesterday . you sing ?	i think he would eat anything i gave him . do you have pets ?
great ! you know any hiking songs ?	i just sang that in my head . i love singing .
that will do ! i like to hike and sing and wear the color orange .	songs , that is what i listen to all day !
those are not hobbies . they are my life work . you work ?	because you are out on the water and have an opportunity to see the sunset !
wow ! you know any spanish ? what is amarillo in spanish ?	i work in education .
not to bad , what about you	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
good stuff , what you do for living	good anyways how are you tonight ?
cool , i am in the army	oh , you in the military ?
wow , well thank for serving soldier	are you in the military
i am from canada , where do you live	what grade are you in ? i have a big garden .
okay , go boston haha , fav food ?	i went to high school i n boston
sounds pretty yummy , did you go to college	i put it in my tea sometimes . shhh !
i did not even make it pass highschool	was it high school or college graduation ?
hi there , yes i love horses and so does barnaby my german shepherd .	yes , i am fine , and you ?
yeah , barnaby is a keeper and a great scorpion spotter . i hate scorpions .	aw that is nice . i never had a dog . i bet its awesome .
barnaby found one in my dad old nascar cars right before i sat down .	they said it was wild .
only when we visit dad they come out . what do you do ?	www . one lived next door when i was young . he was such a good dog .
that sounds cool , better than working for the us postal service .	i am a postal worker .
now that is different . i paint in my spare time to stay sane .	i am a professional horse racing handicapper !
they make awesome pictures . i love colors but strangely my favorite is grey !	i love to photograph animals and people .
yes it does , client have me painting fuschia and other wild colors weekly .	those are great colors as well !
i am not in college , i graduated with a doctorate degree	i am in school . what about you ?
farthest i have ever been away from home was at the park	no i have not been to the movies in awhile .
going to the park is my favorite hobby . or going to my daughters piano concerts	i love watching movies and designer shows .
what kind of stuff do you cook ?	i like to spend the time in concerts . whats the kids fav . color in school ?
i have never heard of it .	i love to cook italian dishes
sounds delicious , i should try it sometime	i like tofu and organic rice
yes i am but i would like a new job soon	yes work at a hospital as a doctor .
thank you , i am definitely looking	i am looking for a job but not sure what industry . what do you do ?
hello , i am doing very well thank you . i just came back from a walk .	hello , i am fine , and yourself ?
i love photography , i am always photographing my food .	how long have you been taking pictures for ?
that is nice , do you drink soda and eat fast food ?	oh wow ! you know , i dabble in photography ; maybe you can introduce us sometime .
i like kids , i would love to have a large family .	i try to eat healthy .
how sweet ! more teachers need to have that attitude .	that is a lot in one classroom .
at the same time ? does that work very well ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i have heard it is best to learn when you are little .	yeah , but we are both teachers at the same school so it gets confusing .
that is very pretty . like christmas all year long .	that is a lot in one classroom .
no i do not like hummus . i am locked up .	yes i love the stuff . tell me about yourself
i am using the library at the juvenile detention center .	no but i like it .
i am a great swimmer . what is the plan ?	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
i am scheduled out in a month , but if the sooner the better .	you would be good at that and i bet that would be a blast .
ok , what channel does it come on ?	that is the plan . so , do you like cooking ?
i am ready to blow this popsicle stand . lets do this . gotcha , banana .	what channel do you watch ?
what ? you said you would help me , what kind of low life are you ?	org ! ! that is horrible . i am glad you are safe now .
great how are you ? i went to the park today .	i am good just watching a movie
what center are you at ? i am work at a center as a doc .	how old is you daughter ?
oh , wow . that is interesting . i have a daughter that is smart .	i work in a for a doctor filing papers .
oh ! that is one of the reasons i am looking for a new center to work at .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
i need to find a place for my daughter to go to school .	i just like going there . i do not have one particular reason .
changing subject , what is your favorite movie ? mine is friday .	i am not very close to her .
where does your mom live ?	comedies are my favorite movies .
we live in nebraska . so do you get to leave the detention center ?	i live in texas . you ?
great , just ate pizza my favorite . . and you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i am not sure i have hard that . . what is it	i am fine , and you ? do you like musicians ? i am one .
oh i would like to try that time . . maybe share with charlie , my dog	i like vegan chinese food . stir fry . . etc i do have to separate the veggies though
a pitbull . . i love pits . do u have pets	a pug called tiki ! haha , i am not a people person either . prefer dogs .
oh that is too bad ! i am from chicago	i have a pitbull . what about you ?
cold and windy now . . not too great	quebec area , i love the views
that sounds great right now , not ready for winter !	it is a little bit cold here as well
i do not enjoy the driving in my honda civic	i love the sunshine and the breeze of fresh air .
hi . good . just got in from feeding the horses . how are you doing ?	hi , its going well and you ?
my horse is called buttercup . we have six in all . do you have pets ?	i am doing well today , thank you for asking .
yeah . are you from the city ? i dream of moving from this tiny town .	i do not have any animals , but i like them . what is your favorite animal ?
yeah . maybe i can get my law degree . what kind of car ?	hard work will pay off . tell me about yourself .
me too . my dad wants me to raise horses like he has and his dad .	i have a black subaru sedan . i love that car .
you must like taylor swift . that is cool . do you have any hobbies ?	yeah , her name was brittney . you know her ?
where do you work ? i am still in high school	i like to dye my haire pink and short . and a truck driver .
grades have to be good for law school . so how is your job ?	i have to get perfect grades in school .
nothing , too young male and been very i will , too .	i am a scientist . what about you ?
oh , that is not good for your health .	are you going to have the surgery ?
wow , and i thought having a transplant for my heart that was outside my body was bad !	that is pretty sad . i am sorry . do you look like her ?
do you believe in physic abilities like moving objects in same room ?	sorry to hear you have not found a true love . keep the faith though !
that has been happening to me since my surgery .	yeah , most people do not believe me , but i know what i saw .
you have my permission . lose weight and win your wife back .	you should try thinking positively ! i hope something interesting will happen to me every day
i am following your facebook page to see good results .	she might get one as well actually . less backaches .
okay , and you can follow mine if you want .	well thank you . it is certainly an interesting process .
i am good and how are you ?	hello i am good and yourself ?
that sounds yummy . i want some brownies	i am fine , and you ? do you like musicians ? i am one .
i do not knit .	no , i am not a musician . but i enjoy helping people .
i think i am more afraid of dying alone .	yes , i play rock but still take piano and violin . what do you cook ?
i love nature ! i am going camping tomorrow night	nature is so beautiful , people should appreciate it more
its just starting to cool off here .	due to me living in a small city its hard for me to go camping .
i camp out in the woods . too sandy to camp at the beach	i do live near the beach . but no water in my home .
maybe one day i will camp on the beach	the beach sounds beautiful , but i am more of a woods person myself .
i am sorry , both those things suck .	what you do not have any money ? they have programs for you .
you would love the shipyard i work in then .	i like to garden and volunteer at the humane society . what do you write ?
sure , how many of those mushrooms have you eaten ?	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
ok . i always donate some of my salary to charity .	you cannot eat it ? or choose not to ?
congratulations , how are you enjoying retirement ?	i am in the navy .
you do not like children ? i also volunteer at a bunny rescue .	both good guesses . 23 actually . i rescue them .
was he spiderman ? that would creep me out .	ha ! did he jump out and scare you ?
i believe you , not spiderman but superman .	i believe that he is .
just came back from a visit in the city , how about you ?	i am doing fine and you ?
do you have any hobbies ? i play a couple instruments and i am a piano teacher .	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
violin , oh my gosh ! my father was a pro violin player and he showed me a lot !	i want to play music for a living . do you like music ?
yeah i actually play the violin , guitar , drums and piano .	i used to play the violin . its a hard instrument !
thank you . not as talented as my father , but i try !	yes , i teach guitar , violin , etc . i play several instruments actually
sorry i gotta go soon , the people at the homeless shelter are waiting for me .	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
i am a weekly volunteer , i just love helping people ! anyways i gotta go , bye !	yes . helps pay for college . i will also play piano for tips on down time during work .
hello i am good , how about you	hi doing great , how about you ?
i am moving in with mine next week	hello good and you ?
what can you tell me about yourself	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
i like the colors red and silver	i enjoy taking photos and hiking their my favorite
i teach at an elementary school	i do not have any pets , but i do love to take pictures .
i am fluent in french	i also teach high schoolers . are you in high school ?
no i would like to though	yes , i speak french , english and arabic so we get asked to different countries
how was it over there ?	i want to visit . i want to travel the world taking photographs .
hi how are you doing ? i am okay no i wish i could .	hello , and yes i would love that .
i am so sorry to hear that i believe your powers are from the lord .	i am sorry . is it money issue ?
i tend to watch large amounts of t . v . on free times .	you must really feel it too in a way .
yes i am a fan and love zombie and vampire movies too	yes . i use to watch it but not that much anymore .
what super powers did you awake with ?	i know i love that movie .
ok that is cool and i like going to the gym most days .	i did a little bit i guess . watching with the whole fam .
i have a job inside my apartment i like working home .	i like to surf and swim .
i am good , preparing for my new job . you ?	i am doing alright on this rany night
i could coach you in how to do that if you want	i am trying to make money running marathons .
i am a life coach so we could discuss	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
oh wow interesting . i move my body by running	oh so maybe you should go running and exercise
you should ! exercise and clean eating are so important	do you run marathons ? i am interested in doing one myself .
i like to run marathons just like my parents did	i am trying to make money running marathons .
i admired them and their athleticism very much	my parents both do . good thing to do .
i follow the paleo diet . you ?	i love to try new food . .
hi there . i am invincible who could probably live forever	hello . how are you doing today ? i am good .
yes . and i have lived for 100 years !	yes , i think that i do .
well . i think my longevity is due to wine drinking and dancing under the moonlight	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
no , but i am so old , i remember the time before a television .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
yes ! i am very strong for a 100 year old !	i never drink . some say it might loosen me up but i do not think so .
radios , not so much . i remember the time radios shows were the norm !	i do ! i listen to the radio because i do not have a television .
red wine is indeed delicious , but they stain your teeth !	yes ! you have good taste in show and movies .
i am tired . i played all day long .	hello i am good and yourself ?
i played with my toys in my room .	i walk dogs and one of them got hit .
yes . i like dogs . what kind are they ?	yes , they are very cute .
my best friend has a cat . she lives next door to me .	dogs . haha . i have four of them now
yes . we play with our dolls together . how old are you ?	no , but i play with my dolls outside .
i am only four years old . i do not like my babysitter .	no . they still need a babysitter now though . i guess they could play video games .
she gets mad at me when i do not clean my room .	i think all parents feel that way at one point .
coffee is my passion , so yes !	ll i like a little chocolate also . .
not at all . i do not drink any type of alcohol .	who are you fixing dinner for ? do you have children ?
no , i am kinda a quiet family man . my wife and kids rock .	oh , so no ice cream for you then . haha
three . it is all fun and games until someone tries to steal my chocolate ice cream .	three boys , ages three , seven , and nine
much healthier . do you work ? i own a plumbing business .	ice cream is a good help for that . chocolate or vanilla ?
i like to read and play video games . i mostly just spend time with my family .	i am a professional plumber .
mostly fiction and biographies . i like those two genres the best .	mostly just reading . sons must be enjoyable to have . maybe someday .
i have not . however , it does sound interesting . i will look for it .	no but i read a lot . are you a reader ?
hey . . . i am a dog person , i have two	yes , a cat and a dog . do you ?
wow ! ! ! that is a lot lol	i have dog . he is so cute !
my weakness is eating when i am bored	lol ! that made me laugh so hard .
i am a summer girl	summer is the best season !
cool what did you win for ?	yes i love the olympics ! ! and gymnastics !
wow ! ! i just run on my treadmill lol	i came in 6th in the 100 meter . do you interested in any sport ?
yes and i love the rower machine	you can run on a treadmill ?
lol nursery r h y m e s	when you sail on your boat , do you like to swim ? i do !
that is a cool idea . how are you today ?	you would think i would have my own at age 25
i just got back from school , not a big fan of it though .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i have never considered it . maybe it would help me make some more friends .	you would think i would have my own at age 25
i will definitely keep the in mind if i join .	are you thinking of joining the navy ?
do you have any bunnies ?	i can pay for you if you are willing to accompany me .
wow ! you have quite the appetite .	yes , they are very cute .
i am a receptionist at a dentist office	i work in a school
i am worn out from work today . how are you ?	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
i used to run . i work at a convenience store .	well howdy . i am doing alright , i reckon . how about yourself ?
what do you want to do ?	how about school ? do you go to school ?
that sounds like a good job . i am the manager at the store that i work at .	you might try turning it into a career .
great ! do you like taylor swift ? i met her once .	hmm if you set your mind to something you will achieve anything you want
i have her latest album in my car . i have a nissan .	yeah she is a good artist
what kind of car do you want ?	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
hello miss ! i m ben and i m grounded for not picking up my toys	hi there . what do you do for a living ?
when mommy orders it . what do you like on your pizza ?	yes . i like to eat .
i like the red stuff underneath the cheese ! how old are you ?	i like pizza , fruit , ice cream all sorts of food really .
is that where my parents pick up the food ?	i am 30 and still living at home .
do you have any pets ?	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
i have a turtle . i named him leo	i do not have any pet at home .
my best friend got it for me . he lives across he street	www . one lived next door when i was young . he was such a good dog .
i like what barney sings !	i do , if it is rock or rap .
daddy listens to them all the time !	songs , that is what i listen to all day !
i recently broke my arm so i am not working	hello . is there one that likes to skateboard ?
i blame my skateboarding friends	well i am sorry . it was for the better though if that was the case right ?
yes , you should retire and learn to knit	no i am in high school . do you understand your feelings ?
good advise , thank you for that	hard work will pay off . tell me about yourself .
i try to avoid working at all	i am currently self employed .
i just want to live free	i think people pay extra for that
it could happen one day	i think people pay extra for that
anything is possible right ?	yes , but she is out and i am not . tell me about your relationship .
what is computer programming , i am new to the united states .	what type of work online ?
cool , i was born in somalia , but my aunt helped me escape .	my it work would give me the skills to do that . lol
i had to get away , i was forced to marry young , but now i am happy	even though i like being around water i wish i learned how to swim .
no , i had to escape him . it was not fun times .	i did . not when her and guy were visiting .
thank you , do you do anything in your free time ?	i am sorry for your spouse .
death metal , is that the music you get whip lash from ?	i write mostly love songs .
swimming is fun ! have you met any olympians ?	where are you from originally ? yes i do .
i am tired from milking the cows .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
100 ? ! that is older then my dad ! would you make your son milk cows ?	that is okay i do not think i am in great health .
i would rather be coloring in my books ! do you like sports ?	yes ! that would be awesome .
i like to watch hockey with my dad . do you have any kids ?	i do like sports . i especially like baseball and hockey .
wow ! i can not even count that high ! i have a pet though . do you ?	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
dad got me a german sheperd to help on the farm . where do you live ?	thought so . pets are fun . yes i have one german shepherd dog .
france is a long ways away ! will you drive there ?	i live in california .
do they let people as old as you on planes , mister ?	oh ! yep it would be a long drive for you .
i recently quit my job , moved in to monastery to pursue my spirituality .	i am also a buddhist
i appreciate that . are you a spiritual person , may i ask ?	that is awesome ! i was taught yoga and buddhism from a young age
you are amazing . thank you for sharing .	the bible says to think with your head not your heart , life will be smoother .
what is it that you do ?	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
peace be with you as you embark on your new journey	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
live in he wilderness of alaska now , we do not have many life coaches here .	ok , yeah that is like a visual meditation . nice .
i agree fully . do you believe in meditation ? my meditation time has brought me much peace	people need religion . they need advice about how to live a good life .
good for you ! i have never ran a marathon , but i certainly admire your determination !	i really enjoy doing anything with yoga blocks , it helps me relax and meditate .
i am good ! counting the days till i can move out . and you ?	hi . i am doing good , thank you . you ?
my job at burger king is taking away all of my video game time .	are you a fan of gaming ?
my coworkers are always complaining i burn the burgers . you are not my parents !	lucky you i work in nasty fast food .
do you drink or do drugs ?	i love then and they love me ! that is why i want to be a vet .
ok good . but why dye your hair ? that is , like , drugs for your hair .	i do not but i have thought about it .
blue ! ? blue ! ? i hate blue ! ree ! ! !	i see , do you want to dye it red ?
black , like my soul . i am very depressed from working at burger king .	blue , it is the only color , it is what i love , blue ! blue !
blond is perfectly fine . you should just keep it like that .	i guess at 21 black is a good color .
okay . i go to school . i like disney world .	i am good . how about oyu
do you like playing on the swings at the playground ?	org i love disney !
i am nine years old . how old are you ?	i am 20 . how old are you ?
what grade do you teach ? i am in third . do you like mickey mouse ?	i am still a kid ! only 3rd grade
i bet you would love disney world . do you ever go ?	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
every year . i am lucky . would you like to go with me ?	never . would love to go one day though
my dad will take you . he has lot of money . where are your vacations ?	sure , my parents will love it !
i will ask my dad . do you play video games ? i like them .	i also take online classes . what is your favorite disney movie ?
hi . i am doing great . thanks for asking . and you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
cool . i volunteer at various places at the moment	i am doing great and that is cool . you ?
church , high school tutoring , publishing houses	nothing specific . i love all food .
wow . how many cats do you have ?	oh my word ! they must keep you very busy .
nice . what do you think of someone growing up poor ?	five cats and also five children , i am a supermom !
well i asked because i grew up poor during several periods	i think they want me to be more responsible . do you like your job ?
yes , it is well . enough about me . how about your favorite past times ?	i am sorry , that is not something i can do currently .
ok . what about favorite foods ? cheeseburgers ?	every day i have to clean and feed them . where are you live ?
oh not much , my name is heather and just looking to chat with people	i am just reading a book
what is your name and do you have any hobbies ?	are you married ? any kids ?
ha , ha that is funny my husband was homecoming king in high school	i love writing stories , but i am now also into reading novels as well . how about you ?
i like books . not much time now that i am going to have a baby	i have been married since high school ,
i got my degree from college , i have been married for 3 years	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
so how old are you kris ?	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
do not be so eager to grow up its not as fun as you may think	i am 21 now , and on my last year of school
i am 27 and wish i was 17 again ha ha	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
hi ! doing great . where are you from ?	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
i live in hawaii and i work from home .	i am in cali . have you ever been ?
it is . i love it here . i have 2 dogs they love it here too .	no i do not have pets either . kind of lonely sounding , huh ?
awesome ! will you dress them up for halloween ?	i love dogs . i have one . far too busy for more .
we are gonna watch a bunch of horror movies . have you seen the new it ?	yes , i am currently taking a year off , but i plan to go next year .
horror movies are my favorite !	yes , i love movies . especially comedy , horror , and fantasy . you ?
my thoughts exactly . nice chatting , have a great day !	dog movies are the bes .
i am a school teacher , who about you ?	i am an english teacher .
i bet that is hard work	i am an artist . where are you from ?
true do you have any hobbies outside of the farm ?	i take photos and film . do you teach at a private school ?
i love photography and foreign language	i take photos and film . do you teach at a private school ?
they are very simple but enjoyable	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
unfortunately no , do you have any ?	no , i do not have any pets . what are some things you like
now that is unusual but interesting .	no pets , do you have pets ?
i am doing well how about you ?	good just relaxing watching tv and you ?
aww congratulations . it must be exciting .	i am great watching tv how are you ?
ow wow now that will be hard task	aww . i always thought it would be cool to have kids .
no i sadly do not . i never been one to hold a steady relationship	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
and now you are having triplets . now that will be a huge family	oh okay , congratulations on being remarried
are you a teacher ? or work in administration ?	we both sound busy . having more money for work we do would help
i am self employed . what subject do you teach	i am a teacher , but i do not make a lot of money .
that is cool . my mother is actually the chair of and education department	i teach most of the time
good , studying the lsat today . how about you ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
really ? i am wanting to be an attorney . where are you from	i am going to be a lawyer .
i used to live in nm ! i lived in a small town outside abq .	i live in north carolina . what do you do ? i am trying to start an online business .
they are . we had horses , do you ride ?	how long has it been in your family ? i bet its a great experience .
tea i am more of a coffee gal , have to study late .	i love to ride horses .
i hope , have to get good scores first . how is your museum ?	law . one day i will be a lawyer .
neat . i grew up with horses , is there anything about horses there ?	what do you like in life ? we ride horses . independently wealthy .
it is ok . i prefer rock	no not really i like all music .
that is cool . are you famous ?	where did you attend high school ?
only at my high school . i just won homecoming queen actually	no i am in high school . do you understand your feelings ?
it is gorgeous ! what do you do for fun ?	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
i run all the time . i want to run a 10k one day .	physical therapy , i have a job with the local highschool . i am their coach .
yes i am . but i want to be a physical therapist when i am an adult	no . . . . in high school ! how about you ?
you should go for it !	what do you want to be when you grow up ?
i am great . third grade is tiring though even though i do not have any responsibilities .	i am good . how about oyu
i am hermit . i am like mickey mouse without disney land .	do you like disney movies ? i love them
so i guess your name is not neptune .	what else do you like ? me , i love being near or in any body of water .
i do not video games because i am always at the playground with all my classmates	haha . this whole thing is hilarious .
no . i have played halo it is fun .	never played it . not big in playing video games . anything else about you ?
robots may take over the world	never played it . not big in playing video games . anything else about you ?
i wish there was two of me so i could be double trouble .	no it is just for fun . sometimes we compete in disney .
i am good ! grading papers all day , you ?	i am going just fine , and you ?
what are you recording ? that sounds interesting .	i am well . busy day at school . how are you ?
do you like the band up ? i saw them once .	i need to keep up with the latest music because i want to be a teacher .
i cannot wait to go to the beach on vaca this year .	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
i try to go every year with my parents . they were teachers too .	yes . i was going to go to the beach but i might go next year .
yeah , i followed in their footsteps .	family vacations are definitely fun . at least with most family members . lol
sometimes . the little kids i teach always make or a good story .	yeah , and quite not interested to be honest .
what else do you enjoy ?	what would you say your favorite band is ?
hi , i am in nevada . i am listening to country music .	i am in cali so its evening
yes we do , i am a store manager and we sell really good tacos .	yes i am a lexus driver .
taylor swift walked into my store the other day ! it was awesome !	woah ! i live in texas . do you have any sisters or brothers ?
really ? i cut my hair like hers short and brown .	you should tell her ! life is short
i like metal too but the old school , like lyda ford .	haha . what kind of car do you drive ?
oh man you hit the spot ! i play it loud in my nissan pathfinder .	i like newer stuff like taylor swift .
california knows how to party !	do u like music ? i love taylor swift .
i am more like john 316 and cypress hill .	like tupac said , california knows how to party .
i am good and no i like country	i am great , i like music
cool ! i have not traveled much since my transplant	oh , you have a great heart
i am yes , when i was born my heart was on the outside	i am good . no , i enjoy traveling with the fam .
it was crazy growing up i could not play like most boys	honestly it was boring ! yours sounds so much more intriguing
i bet , i learned to do magic like moving things with my mind	yeah it was really fun growing up
yes i enjoy swimming a lot	you do not know how to swim ? yes , you should lean
thank you for the offer , i could use some pointers	i really hope you get your surgery . i enjoy swimming , would that help ?
i agree with you ! i like helping at animal shelters	well thank you . it is certainly an interesting process .
my parents were killed by a clown when i was three . i was then adopted	that is pretty cool i was only 5
it is alright . i am more of a pop fan myself	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
no . now i get scared whenever i see one	the parents were not too happy but it was super funny .
i recently got a job ! now i work at a gas station	the parents were not too happy but it was super funny .
not really . but my adopted dad likes them	yes ! they are my favorite .
what industry do you work in ?	the parents were not too happy but it was super funny .
i am single . though my dad keeps setting me up on blind dates	yes i love this industry
cool . what do you make ?	i agree but my dad says i have to work for it
i love the internet it makes me think i can over take the world	i have a couple of kids so it is hard to travel . where do you work ?
yes i use to paint for job . but now i am a maid or housekeeper	i like to play computer games more than cook but that is a good idea .
at 56 i am looking forward to retirement	i have to raise two bad children .
i see just about everything no blood though .	yes even though i like her children i still have to make a living
i may visit my grown children since they never visit me .	retirement is the best i want to travel
as a older woman i wish i could have plastic surgery .	you should probably not . it is not good for the world .
i use to be wrinkle free but the years of time are not kind	yes they pay you to have fun and travel .
yes but it is hard to look at sagging skin and eyes	it may be but it still is not natural . i do not tell !
sure ! i would love to ! what is it ?	no , tell me about it .
wow . my boyfriend would go crazy . we just moved into a house .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
nice . i enjoy taking walks around my neighbor hood .	sorry ! my dad move there i was 2 , been the man of the house since .
yeah . i get busy too . all i ever eat is hamburgers and french fries	i do not work so i need something to keep me out of trouble !
yah bi i never drink any soda . i do not like it	i like veggie but prefer soda all day . you cook ?
oh ok . good for you then !	i do not think soda is good for you .
sure ! i would love that !	i do ! less walking . just wish my boyfriend will find a job .
hi ! well , i usually like to take care of my looks hair , nail , tanning .	i do not have a lot of free time . what about you ?
i do not have one yet , i am thinking about college . what about you ?	i am a professional body builder .
tell me about the interesting one . what is it like ?	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
wow , i have never met an actor ! you must be very fit .	well , that is acting in a sense .
well , i seem to always be on a diet . . . even though i love food . . .	do you work ? i make money that i have not told anyone about .
i want to look my best . exercising alone does not seem to cut it .	i do not think i could ever keep to a special diet .
not really . school was so boring , and they forced us to read boring stuff .	yes , i really enjoy reading . how about you ?
what do you read ? my sister says fantasy novels are the best .	read a lot so would have time to study .
hello , how are you ? i am well . i like to shop for shoes and watches .	i am just watching some tv .
what do you do ? i am work for a watch dealer .	so you are following with the family business ! any hobbies ?
wonderful ! yeah , however , my family does not support my choice of career .	so you are following with the family business ! any hobbies ?
i am not sure why they do not . do you like cars ?	family is important to connect with .
lovely truck ! i dream of owning a rolls royce ghost one day .	i have a black subaru sedan . i love that car .
i enjoy both . i like all kinds of music .	yes , i love music ! what about you ? any favorites ?
there are some great country music songs out at the moment . i prefer old stuff .	i love country ! and hip hop .
i mostly just take care of my children . nice meeting you . goodnight .	i like to watch movies , mostly older ones though , you ?
hello , you have any hobbies ?	hello ho ware you today
awesome i like listening to it while i play tennis .	mostly listen to music . do you like music ? ! ? ! ?
oh , i see that a lot in my insurance office .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
since i was fired i found a job in insurance .	i am a professional painter .
it is ok , but my dad made a ton before he passed away .	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
it is ok , i was pretty young when it happened .	i am sorry to hear that . i am sure he was good at it . what are your hobbies ?
i normally get tanned from playing softball which i love .	no i just really like a good deal .
oh , deal i love playing sports .	i cannot play anything . i am more of an athlete .
hi there . how are you tonight ?	hello to you ! do you have any dogs ? you love winter ?
you like skiing ? i love skiing . i love anything to with winter actually .	hi i am fine thank you and yourself .
i spend my extra money on hats . what do you buy ?	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
i own over 1000 hats . how much britney do you own ?	yes ! i usually buy them to make them into really nice new items .
do you protect them ? my cats would have a ball tearing that up .	400 she must spend everything she has on shoes
so what is your greatest weakness ? mine is vanilla ice cream .	you are not allergic to cats are you ? i have two fluffy ones .
chocolate waffles with vanilla ice cream ! yum ! !	it is kind of my weakness , yes .
i got over diets after the olympics .	for sure . i love a mint hot chocolate .
hello , my name if bebe a mom of 4	i love dogs , i have two of them .
yes every now and then .	yes . i like to eat .
i love watching baseball or american football	i like to do it mostly outside tho , love it .
i am a african american woman the age of 30	we like to watch football , basketball and baseball
so when you say open meaning exactly what ?	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
oh okay so are you bisexual or completely gay ?	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
oh okay well that is good you open about it some people are not	yes , please help me , by boyfriend is awful . he wants an open relationship
that is apart of being true to yourself	well , if it makes you happy , do not be embarrassed
hello ! i am addicted to the internet and play roleplaying games all day	is lobo a human or a pet ?
really ? because working from home is my dream	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
i did go to school to be a vet but i did not like it	i would like to become an engineer .
yeah , my hair is purple because i dye it every 3 months	i love animals .
interesting ! speaking of red , when i see blood i faint	what color would you dye it ?
lucky man , i hope to be someday	do you play any online games ? !
of course ! girls are just as smart !	we all hope to be . . . what do you do for a living ?
absolutely ! could not agree more !	yup ! ! and girls are just plain weird .
horses are great i am george i farm bees	yes ! they are my favorite .
i did bu i am not close to my family	yeah it is a nice place to raise a family .
my wife is a model . i met her in italy . she wants to be a lawyer too .	so you were the second lowest paid professional , what a i care , i coulda bought your school .
no not yet she studies for the lsat . what is your favorite food ? mine is papaya	an education is a good thing to get . i never did .
single irish lawyer . nice . anything else on your mind ?	fried chicken with mashed potatoes .
good luck with moving and your studies	family is wonderful . i home someday . i am a big foodie . italian . you ?
thanks just livin the dream of a humble bee keeping celebrity husband	good luck with that . i hope is succeeds .
my wife is an italian super model	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
i am not good at dancing too big and clumsy . i can pet the bunnies though .	what do you do to volunteer ?
i have a job in the shipyard when i am not volunteering to pet the bunnies .	do any of those affairs involve saving animals ?
nope . did yours save you when you were forced to marry someone ?	no i do not raise animals . do you have any ?
i donate my money from the shipyard to the bunny rescue . they let me pet the bunnies .	oh yeah , sorry she is busy supporting me
i like navy blue . it is my favorite color even though bunnies are not ever blue .	i like to do the tango in my blue dress , yes !
lenny will not let me have a bunny .	i love dogs ! i also highly believe in charity . do you ?
one day i will haves me a farm and get to tend the bunnies .	do you have any children ? children love bunnies .
yes . i will love and pet and hug them .	i would love to volunteer rescuing animals since i love them so much .
olympian gold medalist here what is up !	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
gymnastics for about 4 hours a day great work out .	i love to go to the gym and play games
great whats your favorite color ? mine is yellow	i am 18 . how old are you ?
like pizza ! i like italian food oh garlic bread .	i love the color yellow . you ?
i do not have toys but i do workout .	yes i do . do you have a favorite sport team ?
i do not have friends my only love is for the garlic bread .	i go to the gym and dance .
and gym membership cant forget the gym membership .	i mostly just do whatever they need from me .
hello , i am george , i am doing well . how are you ?	hi ! ! ! i am wonderful . and yourself ?
i do ! what kind do you like ?	no not really i like all music .
oh that is too bad . i am not close to any of my family either .	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
i like isolation , which is why i became a bee farmer .	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
my wife is the bill payer . as an italian super model she makes the big money .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
i love music ! what is your favorite food ? mine is papaya .	yes , i love music ! what about you ? any favorites ?
oh both good choices !	yes , its why the family loves it . are you married ?
i do like it a lot , especially shrimp !	i do not like seafood .
hey ! good , how are you	hello , i am doing good and you ?
aww nice , i work in few hours . i work in construction . . love building houses	hello good and you ?
i live in australia , yourself ?	well i do have a lot of cats now
oh that is bad . . why ? do you have any pet ?	i do not like cats they have something weird about them
i have five cats . . they are so special !	no they just have a lot of cats i take care of
nah . . love them all ! my father loved pets . . i learnt all bout cats from him	yes , i have 4 cats and they are so adorable
they are inside , they are part of he family	they are okay . . i like cats more though
hi . i am doing well , plotting to take over the world .	hi , its going well and you ?
my kids do not visit , so i have a lot of time on my hands , after work .	i am reading that one for the first time . i was not allowed until recently .
mine are too . i am 56 .	you have kids ! i have one son . i quit after the first one . lol
no , i used too when i was younger and a painter .	i do , i travel a lot for work , currently preparing for a trip to china .
no , they never do . i guess they are embarrassed about me not being pretty .	i have a couple of kids so it is hard to travel . where do you work ?
diego , he used to paint me . before freda came along .	yes i am . to the sweetest woman in the world .
i spent a lot of time on the island , before the embargo	haha . not in a bad way .
i am much older than that . my grandchildren are in their thirties	i am 32 . and you ?
no pets . i am retired so i love to travel . pets would slow me down	yes i have 2 dogs .
i used to take a lot of bubble baths when i was recovering from cancer	ll , i mostly enjoy traveling though .
i did ! feels great to be alive	i did , but it it is a tough fetish to crack . little hope for me
i do not . do you ?	not really , i am much more passionate about cooking than chess .
i spoil my grandkids . they want me to get a smartphone , do you think i should ?	i like reading and spending time with my 10 grandchildren . how about you ?
i am . are you married ?	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
do you date much ? you have to put yourself out there	i would love to have kids some day . any grandkids yet ?
hello how are you today ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
i am chillin , do you have any pets ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i like chocolate , do they ?	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
why i am only 4 here	yeah , i do not like that either . how old are your dogs ?
change of subject , what is your favorite color ?	yeah it is because people can talk .
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	i love the color purple .
i have a best friend	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
i really like waffles too	obvious that is my favorite thing to do too so happy to have met you .
i am well , how are you ?	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
wow , that is impressive . what sport ?	good ! tell me something interesting about yourself ?
that is so cool . i like working with electronics myself .	yup . i like the competition . same with sports . good competition .
i take it yellow is your favorite color ?	i am a yellow person myself . together we make green .
like , you mean that is all you ate for an entire year ?	egg plant is delicious ! i like it breaded and garnished with chopped garlic and dill .
i had spaghetti with vegetarian italian sausage and garlic bread last night . it was so good .	you cannot eat it ? or choose not to ?
that is a lot of exercising . i hate exercising . i just work on my robot most days .	that is good exercise ! good for you .
i sure hope so . i want this to be over .	yeah ! i have been trying to create a startup for a new game
i am just watching a documentary on the vietnam war . you ?	i am doing well just finished eating supper . yourself ?
awesome . i am cooking some burgers on the grill . cheeseburgers are my fave	i like different genres . how about you ?
i am all about fitness . i used to be a gym teacher	oh , does it help keep you in shape ?
just loose fitting clothing . that is about it	i like the pants you guys have to wear . do you have any pets ?
i was too poor to afford anything really growing up	i collect shirts that have band logos on them . that is really all the shirts i have
yes . i serve food to the poor because of what i went through	yes . i love giving back to the community i grew up in .
thank you so much . it is always great to volunteer for a cause .	very much so . it is a very rewarding career .
i m from portland or . i just got back from a long walk	i am from california , and yourself ?
i like to walk in parks for good health . no soft drinks for me either !	in a place far far away , you ?
i love sodas with my burgers and fries but i m trying to watch sugar intake	you mean besides food and water not really . i study so much .
sodas in us made with high fructose corn syrup . bad for you !	i try to drink water mainly .
nah . i want to stay cute and lean for my boyfriend who s a model	its very good for you , full of nutrients
i won t allow death metal music to be played in my house !	who is your favorite artist ?
my boyfriend and i share a house and he has a very sensitive psychic cat	haha . not in a bad way .
he can tell when bad things are going to happen by howling loudly	i am more of a cat person . dogs destroy stuff too much lol
i am good . you ? my family goes to disney world yearly . you sing ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
yes ! frozen songs are my fave . i am in third grade . what grade you in ?	yes , it , have you seen it ?
get out ! i love mickey . my friend and i sing frozen songs during playground time .	yes scobby doo is a funny cartoon i love to laugh .
great ! okay tell me what i am thinking now ? go !	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
wow ! not ! okay psychic , give me six lottery numbers .	i am going to look for disney movie , maybe an old one .
oh ! could you try ? heres six for you . 12 , 49 , 34 , 62 , 7 and 19 .	! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! you are right , that would help ! ! ! !
great ! i will in fourth grade soon . you dance ?	yes ! ! i would absolutely love that . do you do anything else for fun ?
oh ? maybe i can tutor the , i have a gold medal from the olympics !	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
aw , i am more into gymnastics . i train four hours daily .	i like foot ball who is your sons team ,
me too ! mine is yellow , my favorite color .	what type of car do you drive ?
i cup back my coffee intake to stay fit .	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
are you a red or a white drinker ?	i would say i drink at least four every day .
i do as well , full bodied reds are great .	yes i love red stripe beer . have you tried it ?
it is an acquired taste .	you should try to exercise . it helps give you clarity .
well , i should be off . i need to train more .	haha , its an acquired taste .
not good . things in my life are not going well .	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
music is not going to bring my wife and kids back !	oh , me too . no , i do not think so .
since they left all i do is work and play games on facebook .	you are never too old . i should try that to cope with the responsibility of the kids .
i do have a boring job . do you go to church ? i am a non believer .	no , i work too much for kids .
maybe my wife will come back if i lose weight . any suggestions ?	people need religion . they need advice about how to live a good life .
i used to ride bikes with my kids alot . do you have kids ?	good advice . how many children do you have ?
i have heard pets can help with depression . what breeds do you own ?	yes , i have three dogs . they are my babies .
do they make you happy ?	i do not have pets . i want a labrador though . i love them .
i am doing well . i am so close to achieving my dream .	hi , its going well and you ?
i grew up in a small town and want to live in the city .	i am going to be a lawyer .
i did when i was little . i finished school and am a lawyer .	yes , i am in high school
i have never seen it before . what is it about ?	yes , i love to watch movies too . any favorites for you ?
oh very nice . are there horses ? i like horses .	yeah , its hilarious . sometimes hard to watch .
interesting . my family had a horse farm when i was little .	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
it was , my grandparents did it too .	yeah it is a nice place to raise a family .
my name is john . i am in my early thirties	hello , i am mia . how are you doing ?
no . i do not have money to spend on chocolate . my wife takes it all	i like fried chicken and chocolate cake , hobbies ?
she does not share . we are a getting a divorce . what is your favorite song	it does not sound like easy money to me .
my job is selling cars . do you like cars ?	i am not sure i have a favorite song . do you ?
i do not like my job . i should try to be a dog too	i have dogs too , they behave in my cars .
bye have a good day at school	i need a dog that generous , are you married ?
i will try to sell lots of cars today	yeah , please do . . good luck !
always start with a and end with z	there is always time to learn !
good i am studying to be a lawyer right now	hey there , i am doing well . what about you ?
wow ! are they girls or boys ?	how long have you owned a farm ?
i will ! are you from a big or small town ? small town for me	i have two boys , they love helping out with the cattle on our farm .
generations of my family had horse farms . i was raised on one	yea , i live on a farm , so i have a few farm animals
i ride them all the time	you told me !
it does but you get used to it lol	haha . it would be better if you put it on your horse
what country are you from ?	yes i respect the country very much .
that is cool what do you do ?	i have been to spain its beautiful
ok . since alabama , my home team , won saturday night .	i am fine how are you ? do you have any pets ?
no . too busy with all of my 19 dogs and 3 sisters .	no , i admit i do not .
yes love them almost as my tacos . no i love my dogs more .	my pets are two dogs .
wow . my sisters and i love chicken tacos .	i love fish . fish tacos with cilantro lime slaw are my favorite .
i live in middle of alabama . do not get to ocean much .	i am in alabama , we dd not have anything like that .
yes . i want to go more but no one to stay with 19 dogs .	the ocean is beautiful , nothing compares to it .
maybe each sister could take six dogs each and foxy go with me .	that would be awesome . maybe i could bring my two dogs with me .
that is right . and take my tacos .	where would you want to go ?
hey , good for you ! me ? well , i love my cats . all five of them , lol .	and what is that ? cats ?
arrested ? ! ? you think so . . . lol . no , they have not caught me yet .	no , that is just crazy .
my dad taught me a lot . even how to stay out of jail , fortunately ! lol . .	take care of my five cats ! they are very needy lol . you ?
sure . do not do drugs . do not be stupid . get married and obey your wife . simple .	take care of my five cats ! they are very needy lol . you ?
lol . i play with my cats . what could be funner ? ! ?	take care of my five cats ! they are very needy lol . you ?
haha . you do not need to steal a toy . cats can play with string , right ?	take care of my five cats ! they are very needy lol . you ?
no kids . i work construction and cant afford them . plus no girls love me .	no pets . i am busy with working construction .
yes please ! working construction , i whistle at lots of girls , but no luck .	yes boys will be boys they say !
i am good . i am just taking a break from unpacking	hey there , i am doing well . what about you ?
i am a bartender . i use the money to pay for my school	i am just studying , last year of college .
that is very kind of you to do so	what do you do ? i go to college .
no unfortunately not , but this is a new apartment . i might get a cat	no , i do not have any pets either .
how sweet ! what are their names ?	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
very cute names . what do you look like ?	their names are oingo and boingo
i have ice blue eyes and platinum blonde hair	what do you look like , i have blue eyes and blonde hair
it is going very well	i am great just got back from the movies , u ?
my baby does . she kicks every time .	no not really i like all music .
there is nothing wrong with that	my kids have dogs too but i never get to play with them . i work too much .
no . i am working on the kids	yes , i have three dogs . they are my babies .
it will be when i go in labor	yes , i have three dogs . they are my babies .
a couple of weeks hopefully	in 3 months ! it is coming up fast .
i am trying to read the pain away	she should , she is having my baby in 3 months lol
no i do not . is that an old band .	yes , it requires an upper level of comprehension , i suppose .
no , not today , do you like sailing ?	no , i do not mind at all .
sounds fun , i will be studying art and eating fish and chips , are you working ?	i love having a dog
christopher columbus is my ancestor , so i am sailing to europe again this year	nope , i love all kinds of food ! do you have one ?
i study art so i like to view it in europe . my family lives far away	no . i like to be with family .
realism is the best , why does it take so long for you to respond ?	i am not sure , maybe about art .
lol , i see , what kind of dog do you have	you should type faster because i really like it when i am heard .
dogs are my third favorite behind art and fish and chips . i have one	he is a mutt . do you have any pets ?
i am good . just came back from mountain biking .	hi good and you ?
not really . i would buy a cup of coffee though .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
do you sell watches ?	i make coffee and brew beer .
interesting job . do you drink ?	yes , but it does not pay very well .
that is funny . my favorite drink is a cup of coffee	i do not drink myself .
that would be a lot of cans .	what i meant was you just collect , you do not drink it ?
i do not understand that . how are you paid in broken watches ?	yup , its a rewarding job . the pay is not horrible either .
tired . spent all night trying to do algebra homework i don t understand .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
13 . i have an older brother who is 17 .	how is it being older ? p
i like our school librarian . she s also our soccer coach . really nice .	i am still a high school student lol , what do you do ?
no . not too much . i take a school bus but we mostly stay at home . except thanksgiving	yes , i would love to travel the world some day with my family
my grandma frankie s house . my mom s mom who lives in ojai .	i have not traveled been busy with school .
not really . she s a bad cook and we end up getting pollo loco a lot	as a soccer mom , i have to take my kids to all the games .
i love my grandma frankie . but she has whiskers that hurt my face when she hugs me	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
i guess . i only wish theda thorpe would go steady with me .	haha but you still love her right ?
i am great . you have any animals ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
three dogs , i have a business dealing with dogs .	no i do not raise animals . do you have any ?
i do no have names since one part of my job is walking them .	do you like dogs ? i have a dog name wonton .
well , i already walk a ton being a salesman .	yes its a way to relax .
all kinds , but would rather be watching the olympics than walking .	well most of the time i stick to my passions .
yes , plus its a full house seeing as i am in a polyamorous relationship .	i would rather it stays like this for me .
yes , but following my dads footsteps going door to door selling .	you seem quite focused on music .
yes i agree you are soo right !	yes i respect the country very much .
my favorite band is metallica . i have liked them since high school .	i like pretty much all bands .
very cool . what is your work out routine these days ?	i never heard of them . is that one of those modern bands ?
i try to hit the gym regularly . i like the treadmill and rowing machine .	i also try to workout several times a week to stay healthy and in shape !
no . all done with school . are you a student ?	nope i am in high school .
marketing . so is it hard to keep up with a raw diet ?	i just graduated with an economics degree
nice chatting with you . i am going to get a short haircut now .	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
how long is your hair now ?	you can run on a treadmill ?
i keep it short all the time .	long , about waist length but i keep it in a ponytail at work
hi , i am doing well , how are you ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
oh , that is nice . i like being in parks especially in nice weather	it is a good afternoon . i am fine , how bout yourself ?
i like to watch nascar racing and sometimes ufc	i like watching movies , gaming , and working on cars . maybe i could be an automotive journalist .
how long have you been working at your current place ?	oh yes you stay busy then , not much free time .
oh that is nice , i like to be in the medical field someday .	how long until you are done ? yup ! its my job now , so perfect
i work as an usher at an orchestra theatre since i was sixteen years old	i am currently looking for work . background in medical field .
yeah it is nice . do you have a favorite band ?	i love music . what is your favorite band ?
i am well and you ? in honor of aim i will ask a s l	hello , i am fine , and yourself ?
i am 37 f tampa . i like my walks on the beach and cheeseburgers in paradise .	walked right into that one , right ?
i was named after a horse . my boyfriend likes to may nay sounds at me .	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
just do not mix with alcohol or can get crazy around here .	you are crazy dude . . . i love it .
i tend to stick to my water only . soda is worse !	i use to drink alot , so bad i had to get help . do not be that guy .
as long as i have my french fries !	i drink water most of the time .
of course . now all of this has made me hungry .	you have a good attitude about it !
chicago has some great places to eat too .	you cannot eat it ? or choose not to ?
are you visiting there now	i live in the country in ms . i have a new horse , beauty , that i enjoy riding .
that is nice where are you in particular	you should visit one day .
i live in a small town so i do not travel much	that is what the locals call boston .
that is fun i live on a horse farm	i want to travel more there , what country do you want to visit most ?
yeah they can be but my family helps out	i wish i had a career though
that sounds great is that something you learned from you trips	do you have a family ? i will cook for them . cooking is my hobby
wow that is pretty cool i like history	you know him ? i travel a lot !
ok have a great day	you should take the horses !
i am hood . thanks for asking .	hey there , i am doing well . what about you ?
i am going to college so not a lot of spare time . you ?	i work as a nurse . you ?
what do you do for a living ?	i like to keep a good outlook on life .
awesome ! i work at a bar at night to help while in school .	i work as a nurse . you ?
i love bbq except chicken . i do not like chicken .	i really enjoy bbq . smoked ribs in particular .
do you live with anyone ?	i make chicken nuggets sometimes when i cook . i am a nurse . any other hobbies ?
i just got an apartment with my best friend .	i do not live with anyone else
no . it is not a guy .	yes you are . . . . do they live with you ?
i love horses we done this for generations	hello , what are you up to ?
i am fine , being a lawyer is my dream .	how long have you owned a farm ?
i see , i grew up in ta horse farm in a small town ,	my best friend calden wants to be a lawyer someday .
that is why i want to move to the city it is my dream	i used to play the violin . its a hard instrument !
you are lucky , they only love horses	i want to open a homeless shelter
that is so sweet of you , i bring my horses to the children hospital once	i hope you will be able to someday . do you have a family ?
yes , the city has many great places and people	haha yes my family did not have much money
yes , it did , we brought in a mini pony the kids loves it .	yes but i still want it to be good
i am doing well . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am sure that can be difficult . what type of doctor are you ?	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
what do you do for fun when your not working ?	i am a mom of two kids 8 and 9 . what about you ?
that is a good way to reduce stress from work . my wife is doctor as well .	i like going to the movies and walk my dogs , do you like any other sports ?
i read many tennis related books because i play tennis professionally .	i like to read also and play with my dog . do you have a pet ?
i have been professional for 20 years .	many years , since i was a child . what do you do ?
unfortunately i travel all the time . it can be tough on my family .	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
sometimes my kids are able to but my wife mostly works at the hospital .	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
hey there ! i am noah . doing great , how are you ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
that is awesome , i love cats . mine like to watch nascar with me	i am doing well that you . my 2 cats says hello as well .
pretty cool , i love mexican food , can not get enough ! what do you do for fun ?	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
holy cow . a lot of hats ! i just have one . my construction worker hat .	i build models . airplanes , house , cars , shopping centers , etc .
wow , really ? i am not much into sports , except ufc but that is quite an accomplishment !	no , i am not really in to games .
well , speaking of the nineties , i toured around following aerosmith . love those guys .	i do but not professionally just for fun .
best way since i started working at 16 . what kind of tunes do you like ?	yeah nascar is cool , listing to rock music while i drive fast !
classic rock never goes out of style , man .	mostly listen to music . do you like music ? ! ? ! ?
i am good , how are you ? do you know of any good jobs around here ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
i am in north carolina . where are you from ?	i am a restaurant manager , what do you do ?
maybe ! do they have restaurant jobs up there ? i might relocate .	nope . i am a lydite .
my older sister tried to get me a job but there was not much here .	i am looking for a job and that is a hard job in it self lol
how did you get interested in doing that ?	why are you looking for a job then ?
do you like to play basketball ?	did you follow in your fathers footsteps careerwise ?
nerd ! haha , just kidding . who is your favorite music artist ?	my whole life really . i do not play as much as i used to though .
hey i go to preschool . my name is roddy	evening , i am well . yourself ?
my dad grills my favorite hot dogs all the time	good afternoon , how are you today ?
yummy . . . do you have kids my age ?	i love dogs ! we have some where i work that play with the kids .
cool i need some new friends	i do not have any kids either .
i have to wait til i am older to do that	her name is molly and she loves kids . what are your nephews names
that is a good idea but i prefer to play with my toys	awwww that is cute do you want kids
that would be fun . my best friend could play too	maybe you and my son can play
like the lottery or casino ?	love it . we should play a game sometime .
i am okay , eating some ice cream before bed .	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
i am , my wife and i have three girls .	yes , i have two girls and one boy . do you have children ?
we are looking to adopt a few more in the coming years .	do you work ? how do you manage with 5 kids as a single parent ?
i have a truck , i prefer cars though .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
spending time with my family and shopping .	i am a truck driver , i do not see my kids though
i prefer cosmopolitans , and white russians .	i like hot chocolate or tea better .
ice cream . chocolate ice cream .	i like hot chocolate or tea better .
i like bacon , fries and waffles .	i like pizza and ice cream .
yes ! its part of my cancer treatment . i started a new job . you ?	no , i would never do that
i run marathons and never ate meat . you sing or dance ?	i wanted to see how it would affect my health , if it would improve at all
i am a life coach for hospitalized children . what else you do ?	haha i say yes . if you really race , you will win .
great ! do your parents ride horses too ? my parents are dead .	i am still in high school .
wow ! we buried my aunt in lime green her favorite color .	i would not like to clean them in this weather .
thanks . she died a long time ago . she was a meat eater too .	oh then that is crazy of her to say ! does not sound like she supportive
yes ! meat eaters are dropping like flies these days . where do you ride ?	oh . i am sorry she is not healthy .
why are you sad about it ?	i think you just need a vacation . .
i feel great , just been traveling so much lately . i am 23	i lied . i am not living it up . i am miserable ! i hate my job .
nope , i love food to be honest . i own a yacht	no just cats . i travel a lot , traveled around world on boat last year .
cool , i know some people who do . can you cook ?	i like to bird watch in my free time , especially on weekends .
weird . i rent my boat when i am not cruising	well i love fried chicken honey or no !
nope , just faux . what is your gender ?	i do ! yes , please share !
i am not sure , i think i am a girl last i checked	i am a woman , that is good to know !
good for you jefferson , i am sam and drive a ford pinto	hi there what video games do you play ?
i work at a computer shop in town	i am a gamer and work for a video game company
enough for what i need . i spend most of my time playing games	no , i buy everything i need .
i love call of duty	we love call of duty games
my sister loves to play that , i never got into it	i like sims and call of duty or fallout .
i do roleplaying events in the park on weekends	we love call of duty games
it is very silly , so i do not take it to seriously	yeah i find it too funny .
what other things do you like to do for fun	yes that is the moral of the story . i play video games .
me too i am an engineer , what do you do ?	oh . i like to rock climb .
oh nice , do you live in the rocky state , colorado , as well ?	i am in the financial sector you ?
washington is nice , i love hiking there in the spring .	living in colorado , there is not much for me to do .
that is nice , i need a new car , how is the bmw ?	oh . i like to rock climb .
does it have heated seats , that is my favorite , we could go rock climbing sometime .	it is a really good car . you should !
i am down , when can you come visit ?	that would be so nice . what do you drive ?
that would be fun , friday or saturday ?	well lets plan to go !
i will bring the ropes and pulleys , you bring the snacks	we will have to go to one some day , it would be fun !
i am fine thank you	i am doing well , and you ? ahh a musician you are !
i sing folk music for a living	i work in a school
i am a custodian to put bread on the table	i like to pay guitar . you ?
my parents do not support me in my pursuit in becoming a singer	i want to open a homeless shelter
you are very lucky then	you are lucky he makes so much money so you do not have to work !
hopefully not you do not want that	maybe you need to try some different music to help
your father to be unsupportive	i guess parents sometimes think they do the right thing .
because of things you know	that is what my dad says .
hey , i like the color yellow a lot !	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
i love gymnastics its my favorite to do as far as sports !	you ever try to paint yourself ?
yeah , i workout at least flour hours a day to music	i am not into music . what do you do for exercise or sport ?
no , i got a gold medal in swimming . i love italian food	i race competitively its pretty fun
garlic bread is the best . i love mexican also	i love mexican food , do you have a favorite ?
i am a music teacher	i am currently self employed .
no , i cant stand aerosmith . i teach them real music like radiohead	no i do not . i would love to learn .
i like dream on a lot	i am not into music . what do you do for exercise or sport ?
bet that makes you feel old . you need a couple of old mustangs like me	i keep two canines as tamed animals
i keep a couple of vintage mustangs on the road and play with my dogs	i work part time as a music teacher . you ?
do you get visitors ? go to a country music concert when you get out	dogs , dogs , and more dogs . i love them
every weekend i go , the dogs are mutts , blue and biscuit , i love them	i go to concerts on every weekend that i can .
stealing is bad , not as bad as getting caught . can you work on cars there ?	true story . i had a lot of them when i owned my mustangs .
what did you do before your little inconvenience ?	its work what can i say . i just like driving my mustang gt to work .
i see , sometimes you mess up and the price is too high , right ?	i just sold both of my 1968 mustangs so i have enough money to last a while
i work on my two old mustangs , love country music and go to concerts	i like to paint and play with my dogs . what are your hobbies ?
wow , tell me about these powers please	hello , just fine what about you ?
oh you can switch on whim ? wow . do you like sweets ?	what games are you playing ?
i did not know that was a side effect , well i am a donut fan	yes . do you make those too ?
that sounds exciting and scary , you can see your own heart ?	yea me either , take out does it for me .
how do you do that ?	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
i have a total of zero powers	yea i do . as much as role playing
i would dry that , do you want to play an video games ?	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
i already play a ton of call of duty	we love call of duty games
well considering i do not know you ? no , but i am too	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
i spend the most money , on hair care products honestly , my favorite	i have lots of money , for no reason , but nothing makes me happy
i really want to try that once , i heard its bad for you	you should make me one ! i could pay you for it
go figure . what do you do for fun	i only listen to it .
ha , wow , sounds pretty irresponsible .	i like to make money for fun
not really , i am all for it . after you do what your supposed to	i do not blame you . it is dreary .
i play a lot of video games , especially the xbox	i like to play videogames
video games do not make any one popular , more the opposite	so what kind of games poyou like to play ?
nice , i am just enjoying some vanilla ice cream	do you have any cats ?
surely a little bit would not hurt !	do you have any cats ?
i used to have to diet as i was an athlete	that makes sense , so the cats do not get their feet wet
i won a gold medal in the olympics back in the 90s	no dogs do not do so good around the cats . cool name !
you have a dog ? i have 2 cats	well , that is still something to be very proud of !
haha , very true , do you collect anything ?	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
i collect hats , i have over 1000 !	i collect them , as well
i do not . my husband and i have chosen to not have any .	i do have 2 kids . what do you like doing ?
i am a surgeon , he is a detective .	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
no , it is not . we have a great life .	ll i think its the other way around .
human services is evil , they make up asinine rules .	i work at a doctors office . it is so boring .
that is your opinion , and one you are entitled too	can you make it to your local doctors ? i think you need to talk to them .
it does not matter , as you know what i was saying . lighten up .	what job would you lie to have ?
that has nothing to do with you .	what do you think you ; ll do job wise ?
how was that possible since it was your dad who worked there , not you .	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
i am feeling healthy and ready to go ! how about you ?	hi ! doing well . how about you ?
are you a survivor ? that is amazing !	lol . you would be on a healthy dehydrated food diet .
i am sure ! that is why i only eat raw foods .	that is very ture , but i am also trying to eat healthy but it is so good !
i love it . so do my two kids and wife !	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
plus , as an economics major , i can assure you that it makes financial sense too !	that is wonderful ! big families are great !
amazing ! do you like music ?	i invest in stocks . i will probably be a millionaire one day soon . retired at thirty
i love the rolling stones . i see them at least once per year .	i love music ! i listen to almost all music from each genre out there . you ?
he is great too ! do you live in nj ?	i went to his concert last year ! he is great !
hi . good . i am just picking out paint for my new apartment with my boyfriend .	hello , i am well . where do you live ?
yeah . he will not go for red even though i love it . what is your favorite color ?	oh okay . you paint or draw ?
green is okay . silver is my other favorite .	i definitely love the colors , yes .
neither really . i already have 25 3rd grade students in the class i teach .	yes , a cat and a dog . do you ?
do have a bunch of them ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
i am a bit of a language buff . i am fluent in three languages .	i would like to teach english . what is your favorite animal ?
english , french , and spanish . do you speak any other languages ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
parties are a lot of fun ! do you have other hobbies ?	i speak two languages , french and english !
great just finished watching a documentary with my husband	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
me too ! they are my favorite . was watching taxi to the dark side	the tv show or the movie ?
it is very well made , i usually read a lot but love documentaries	i have seen a couple versions of that movie . its a great story
i am pregnant first timeso have been stuck at home myself	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
i do , me and my husband both go to bible study every wednesday	i do all the time , no i have not been . maybe one day . are you religious ?
are you married as well ? what part of the country you from ?	i go to church daily and a weekly bible study .
i am in pennsylvania myself , love the weather here . is it nice there ?	i live in pennsylvania but in the boonies . what about you ?
i am doing great , but i hate orange . the color .	hi , doing well and you ?
no i do not care much about foods . or fashion .	yes . i like to eat .
the only thing i need to survive is dance , i do that on the weekends .	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
well i work in a bookstore and i like books .	well as long as it makes you happy then keep doing it .
yeah , i got into dog agility classes .	read a lot so would have time to study .
i love your puppy too and i have not even met him	you mean , you do not like his books ?
i have one dog , his name is tim .	yes , he is my dog . i could not live without him . do you have pets ?
i have a bird named goose	yes , i have two cats and 4 dogs
hello ! i am having an okay day . how about you ?	hi ! i am doing okay . you ?
oh wow . i do not run much . how is that ?	i like cooking , swimming , my dogs .
i really enjoy fishing and cooking my catches .	i am aspiring to be a chef and i have been trying lots of fish recipes lately .
i do as well . i also enjoy being on the water in any capacity .	i am aspiring to be a chef and i have been trying lots of fish recipes lately .
for sure . i am also really into comic books and heros .	i like to eat fish and go swimming . good fit right ?
oh my , what were you in the hospital for ?	oh my , never heard that before . cooking and reading are my favorite .
oh wow . congratulations on your recovery .	i am aspiring to be a chef and i have been trying lots of fish recipes lately .
what do you do as a life coach ?	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
i am . just thinking about taking my bike out for a spin	i am doing wonderfully thank you . i hope you are the same ?
not really . i do race my bike though .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
that seems to be the thing now . so expensive too	haha . i would probably get those replaced .
so tre . i just wish i did not have to wait tables to get extra money .	i do not think that is true . money is needed to pay bills .
i guess it just really want to be out on my red bike .	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
awesome . maybe we could go out riding together .	i am happy for you . use the money wisely , and save for your retirement .
i have to go , talk to you later .	i want to do that with my life .
i just got off work	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i am a tour guide at a museum . what do you do for a living ?	i do not work what about you
interesting . do you have any hobbies ?	i work for a library . i do not have any children .
i like to garden . i grow roses .	i enjoy reading and crocheting for charity .
i do not follow any particular diet . do you ?	mainly herbs and a few vegetables .
yes , maybe i would not be partly deaf if i ate like that .	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
no , do you use solar panels ?	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i will . i think i have a book about them in the library at my house .	i do not . do you have any suggestions ?
i am okay . tired from cleaning all day .	i am doing well . where are you from ?
no , but i do sing folk songs to make work go easier .	yes , i do . do you sing or play or just listen ?
together ? that is interesting . do either of you play any instruments ?	i always sing songs very loudly .
i tickle the ivories , strum on the guitar , and sing . i want to be rich and famous .	i play all wood winds and brass and strings . i do it all
well , you made it through a world war , so you must have been smart enough .	i always sing songs very loudly .
i like explosions . but they do not let me use grenades while i clean the school .	yes ! i am a musician anyways , so its awesome to share my gift with the world .
maybe i should relocate . your place sounds like more fun .	but the cost of school is so high .
just keep a song in your heart , and your head held high . we will get through .	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
great ! how about you ? i am jeremy .	hi , i am doing really well . you ?
hi sue . do you have any pets ?	hi there . how are you ?
i have two cats . mistletoe and gingerbread . you can tell i love winter . how many children ?	no , no pets . do you have any ?
cool . do they all like icecream ? i like vanilla .	three boys , ages three , seven , and nine
i am a coffee lover also . do you have any collections . i have 1010 hats .	i like iced coffee with flavors in it .
five boys . . . yes ! wine ! i am not much of a drinker . no children though .	never had blue wine , is it expensive ?
yes , true . do you have any hobbies ?	what car do you drive ?
i see . i was an ice skater . olympics , 1992 i won a gold .	i like to make wineglass candles .
i am well thank you , how is your night going ?	hello , i am good tonight , i am just with my cats
oh what are you in school for ?	hello ! my 5 cats also say hi . how are you
are you planning to go to college ?	what school ?
exciting ! i played soccer in high school too , long ago	i would love to be on a field ?
very much . now i have bad knees and back from all the construction work	i played a little bit of soccer in school , but was never really good at it
it is ok , i love building houses , no regrets	its not that hard . i will help you !
it is ! then i get to go home to my cats and a beer	its a lot of hard work and i am hoping it will be worth it !
as long as you drink responsibly it is	absolutely ! do you have any cats ?
good evening ali . tanya here .	hi there . what do you do for a living ?
cool . i have been so bored , so of course i eat !	hi , how are you ? i am great ! i am studying for school .
yum . good thing i enjoy using the rowing machine and treadmill .	wow , what do you eat then ? i go to the local college and study .
that is great . any pets ? i have a german shepherd and a schnauzer .	where do you work ? my dad was in banking . i am now filling his shoes .
do you long hair or short ? i just tried a short haircut .	pets are not allowed where i live , unfortunately .
i have to get used to this . so any hobbies ?	is your hair long ? i keep mine long , almost to my waist !
that is your major ? that will be great to know about money .	i have a job in finance
go education ! ! well , take care and good luck with your classes .	i graduated with a business degree , i would recommend it
wonderful i just moved to a new place !	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
close to my school in philadelphia .	why did you move away ?
female . with blue eyes and light blonde hair , yourself ?	no i just graduated college , to busy working .
what is your favorite food . mine is strawberries	yea . . . i am still a teenager . hopefully this pays for college . what do you do ?
lol . do you work ? i am part time at a bar .	strawberries are my favorite . love them .
i see ! so you have any hobbies ?	i work part time as a waitress .
safety first ! my best friend is vegan . which works well . because chicken is gross	hobby . what do you like to do in your spare time ?
hi . okay . heartburn . 2 months until i am due . the twins are restless tonight .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh , no . sorry to hear that . hubby and i disagree once in a while about the kids .	haha , i may know who you are . my 2 kids are the same way .
yeah . well , i wish you luck there . we bought a cute 2 story house .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
you should travel if you get a chance . its expensive to travel with kids .	ahahah maybe so ! if you are ever in ohio hit me up .
i suppose , but that does not work with a pregnant woman and 3 kids	i would love to travel as well .
yep . between work at the bank and the kids , i am exhausted every night .	does it provide a financially secure life ?
so true . enough about me . tell me more about you .	lol u should be sleeping if the kids keep you up all night
sounds like a lot of fun .	no kidding ! i travel all the time , for work and pleasure . maybe i will visit !
hey ! just watching a game of football with my children . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
ah man congrats for trying to get back on the road !	apparently i do not work . is there anything else about you ?
ah i live in florida man , i feel you . the city is full of temptations .	how long have you worked there ? i wish i had a job .
do you have a job currently ? i am a programmer for a game company .	you just stay on the farm ?
it must be hard making a living , i feel sorry for you pal .	that is an awesome career ! where did you grow up ?
do you have any hobbies ?	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
haha you are a funny guy ! maybe you should be a stand up comedian !	i like going to the movies and walk my dogs , do you like any other sports ?
anyways man i gotta go walk my dogs soon , it was nice chatting with you !	lol ! i totally should ! that would really be funny .
sure ! what do you do for a living ?	i am trying to get my ba in finance
i am a student also , i have a degree from yale but i am going back soon .	i have a job in finance
finance , i am going back for business next .	i just graduated with an economics degree
wow that is awesome ! thanks , my parents inspired me . they are rich bankers .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
me too . they make me work for everything i have .	you will be impressed with how fast i can be . i am very wealthy . the wealthiest .
not much really . i stay pretty busy . you ?	researching different business plans and start loans . what do you go to school for ?
that is nice ! which instrument ? i just bought my first car .	i also play in my school band .
never heard of him . a 2000 bmw . its not much but i am proud .	i drive a bmw x5 .
hello , i love fries , and am getting married soon .	no favorite foods really . what about you ?
i love to try new restaurants and dance .	i like to read . i am a student .
i am a kindergarten teacher , i look up new painting techniques on the weekends	what spare time ! ? mostly i study for school and play with my kids . you ?
i used to play a lot of fallout when i was in college .	i play and teach as well . it is my passion .
dogmeat is awesome . i would love to go to an elvis school	we love call of duty games
it is one of the areas in fallout .	neh . too much work , i am a student and a singer .
i have a maclaren , it is awesome .	drive it to school . i am taking a year off before college .
my boyfriend bought it for me as a wedding gift .	i have a ford mustang , do you go to school ?
hi , i am 20 . nice to meet you .	i am fine thank you how old are you .
i like cartman . my favorite thing is shopping .	my favorite character on cars !
sounds fun , yes i do ! shoes and watches are my favorites to shop for .	no . i like to work on cars .
do you want to build a snowman !	songs , that is what i listen to all day !
no , i am just a watch dealer . my family do not like it	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
third grade was so fun ! good for you .	yeah now i have to study , which stinks .
i would like him more if he got me a rolls royce ghost	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
i like to swing on the swing sets . how about you ?	my favorite character on cars !
hello , i am doing well . i think i may have had too much coffee . you ?	hi there ! i am well . you like football ?
i went to a star wars convention in helsinki . are you going there ?	have you ever been overseas ?
that is a nice museum , i visited last summer , before football season .	i read a book about paris once . makes me want to go there .
i am with ohio state . born and raised in ohio	the us national team , i am disappointing that we did not qualify for world cup
i am a student , going to school for veterinary medicine .	i am a football coach .
very nice . do you like animals ?	what is your major at school ?
mine too , a beagle . what do you have ?	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
how tiny ! do you like coffee ?	i currently have two kittens , two labs and a chihuahua .
i was cooking ! what about you ?	not much how are you today ?
this late ! i am just practicing my cooking . how old are you ?	anything good ? i am looking for dog treats . i love my dogs . i love all dogs .
yes ! i love tacos ! there is not much i do not like , i am 23	yes you can belong ! i cant wait to get back so i can eat tacos ! !
i live in oregon for now but i have been all over the world this year .	i live on a yacht off catalina island . where do you live ?
yes . the tacos there were amazing ! where do you live ?	yes ! i have been there a few times , nice place
i keep my yacht close by there . i am renting it out right now .	i am in alabama , we dd not have anything like that .
would you like to travel with me ? i have been almost everywhere .	i live on a yacht off catalina island . where do you live ?
i have coffee . up late sewing . you ?	i am working out now , and drinking water
oh ! my grandson is in little league . what age group ?	i sew things like kids outfits and shirts .
that sounds great ! do you ever go so pro league games with them ?	both of our children had babies . we have 5 granddaughters and two grandsons .
lol . i get it . i am retired , and i leave that to my kids !	yes all the time since i retired .
it is great , especially once i beat the cancer .	i also love to sew .
thanks ! so how old are your kids ?	i so agree ! with retirement you will get to do so much !
wow ! that is nice . my kids are grown . grandkids are 10 , 12 , 15 , 17 .	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
yes , and i can send them home if they act up !	that is a lot of grandkids ! what do you like doing with them ?
hello ! how are you doing ? i am doing pretty well today	hello its going good . . . u ?
where are you from ? i live in the us now but was born in africa . somalia	i am good . how about oyu
nice . how is the weather there ? are you married ?	i live in north carolina , how about you ?
i love dancing . all kinds	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
shopping can be quite fun . i was not allowed to shop as a child in somalia .	marriage does not exist in my culture .
i could use dance shoes . if we lived closer together i would suggest we go shopping	i cut back in other areas like shoes .
my aunt brought me to california after she found out i had to marry a man .	well we escaped and met again 10 years later and were married . we are happy .
it is quite pretty here . i own a dance studio	i have not been out of the united states , but i would like to .
what are you doing today ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
cool . i am listening to the rolling stones .	hi , its going well and you ?
nope . just two kids . what do you like to do ?	no , no pets . do you have any ?
what is your favorite food ?	i like cats over dogs , dogs nasty .
veggies . i like to eat clean .	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
i am an economist . is building houses a job or hobby ?	i work in the banking industry . how about you ?
very interesting ! nice chatting . have a great day !	my dad and i started years ago .
how many do you have ?	i think my two cats convinced them to do it ! ! ! !
i love dogs her name is barnaby , a german shepherd	hello . how are you doing today ? i am good .
nice to meet you , i work in the usps	i own 2 wonderful dogs !
how big are the dogs ? are they grey color ? that is my color	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
do you order from amazon ? my dad is a nascar racer	they are very big dogs . what do you do for a living
are there scorpions in your area ? i hate them	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
amazon is a great place to order books	no , they are still out there . . . believe !
i feel the same , they are so dangerous in my area	yes ! it is so annoying .
do you like to go fishing ?	i am sorry to hear that . i am sure he was good at it . what are your hobbies ?
hi i am john and love to the mountains	hi there . what do you do for a living ?
yes i like models and i am not married	i like trekking and mountain climbing
sure how can that happen ?	do you not have any family ?
i have one dog and a nice career	well , good luck with that , my husband is an engineer .
in the spring time i go hiking all the time	i guess i would have to say that i became an engineer and i enjoy that
do you have any pets ?	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
i have one dog myself , she can be a bit of pain	yes , two cats and 4 dogs , , do you
rock climbing can be scary at times but its very exciting to see the top	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
you know it . i wish it was still summer .	hey ! yes , tell me something about you .
cool ! i love to go rock climbing my fav summer activity .	toto your dog ? yeah i use to live in kansas .
i like spring too for hiking . you like winter best ?	i like the outdoors . what work do you do ?
so where do you live ? me colorado your kind of weather	yes . i like winter but i do not like to be cold .
job for me is mechanical engineer . what about you ?	i am in cali so its hot . i go to uci . where are you from ?
pets ? i have a dog named trooper . he is a black lab .	i like to dance on the weekends
he likes everything . lol what do you do during the week ?	i love tacos . how about you ?
i can relate to that i am always tired .	i like anything adventurous , like hiking and mountain climbing .
just jamming out to some new kids on the block ! !	hi there i am doing great !
how sweet ! ! i need to get my dance gear ready for my class tomorrow night !	what do you teach ?
now that is heavy stuff ! being born in the early eighties myself , i suppose anything is possible .	hehe ohhh . . . . . fun ! did you have any crazy experience as a kid ? ? ?
big time ! i love hip hop ! and you ?	i am indeed , yes ! what are you a fan of ?
ha ! i love that randomness ! so , i was cleaning out closets and found my lite brite !	i listen to hip hop mostly .
yes ! so throwback ! what is your go to late night snack ?	you bake ? i would love to bake more , but the time and energy ha ha !
whoa ! again , intense ! i am a cereal kind of girl .	chili . homemade with corn chips and sour cream .
raisin bran ! i am way hard core . i have crap metabolism .	yes , healthy desserts are the best !
hi jo . yellow is a great color . it is the color of fall in colorado .	hi i am good , and you ? i am in colorado , where are you ?
wow ! that is impressive . swimming or running ?	i wish i had time to climb a mountain .
nice . i prefer hiking and rock climbing myself . living in co is great for those .	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
me too . i often go to company dinners at italian restaurants . what is your favorite dish ?	i love italian food . sounds great right now .
delicious choice . i love coming home from work to a nice plate of that .	i like chicken alfredo , it is so good .
i work as a mechanical engineer so i do not know a lot about gymnastics .	it is my absolute favorite food .
i am sure . have you ever been to colorado ?	rock climbing is something i enjoy doing . what hobbies to you have .
i live there , you will have to come visit sometime . great trails for running .	i have a friend in colorado springs . . i love that place
so far so good . who am i speaking to ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
philip . me and my dog charlie are just listening to music	hello . how are you doing today ? i am well .
well that is nice . what book are you currently reading ?	do you read alot ? i am more into music .
i always thought that would be an interesting skill to have lol	read , read and then read . bookworm you could say .
tea huh ? like the stuff but goes awful with pizza imo	i cannot read over music so i never read lol
the double cow consumption , nice . always goes down with some lil wayne	i put it in my tea sometimes . shhh !
lol i do not know how to respond to that	i like rap music . i turn in up driving in my car
i am fine , how much are your apples ?	hello there . i am doing pretty well and you ?
i actually thought you were selling chocolate covered apples	i make some of the best pizza in chicago . do you like pizza ?
well , i do not have a car . i just use a bike instead lol	yes . my family owns one and i work on it .
a roadmaster , how well does yours work ?	a honda civic , a real gas saver
i go to school from home , on a computer . i use it for exercise	i am in school . what about you ?
that is pretty cool , i kind of enjoy being alone	we grew up together . where are you from ?
you can be you and i can be me . i am practicing my 3rd language	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
penthouses are really nice , i believe you will get there with determination	do you make bank ? i want a high paying job
you are very welcome , keep dreaming big and have a nice day	thank you ! i think we would get along well
a mazda protege , what do you drive ?	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
i study language and music , can you speak french ?	i speak only english , and a little spanish
i am allergic to symbiotic connection so i own no animals , do you ?	no , i do not have any pets either .
what are there names ?	my pets are two dogs .
i used to have a black lab named cooper , are you religious ?	one and a half i am native english and working on spanish .
do you practice the left hand path ? i do as well .	no , i was not raised religious . sorry .
how has that been going ?	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
no i do not . i love wearing band shirts with ruffles on the sleeves	i am not sure really , you ?
haha ok , i have blond short hair . i am a girl and pretty skinny staying in shape	i understand that ! i get away and play video games
no i do not watch , i listen to music and play video games	yes . i use to watch it but not that much anymore .
same here , its an awesome game	we love call of duty games
yeah is that your job that you do ?	i also pretend to drive fast cars . are you ready to submit ?
that is cool . i work at an insurance company	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
health insurance helping old folks with their policy	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
ouch that reminds me of my car insurance .	maybe i should invest in one then !
greetings , i like fish , not chips , what is your trabajo ? work	hi sure i would love to . do you speak spanish ? i grew up in mexico .
i am unable to go out , too busy studying , lots on my plate , art ? i like music	one and a half i am native english and working on spanish .
who is your favorite artist ? mine is wagner , do you speak espanol ? love paella !	do you speak spanish ? i love spanish music
you love food ! all i do is study , spanish now , french next , in between music	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
no time for travel . i hate flying , could we go on a boat ?	i do want to move to spain , study there and then teach english there afterwards though .
i could study , listen to music and go to europe , you could eat . lol	then you would love the cruise !
take medicine , sounds fun , let us go ? you pay , okay ?	i do want to move to spain , study there and then teach english there afterwards though .
i am learning spanish in school ,	what language do you speak ?
that is super cool . i love the spanish word trabajo	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
why is that ? i am also a musician	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
well why do you feel so lonely ?	neh . too much work , i am a student and a singer .
well that is cool what is the secret to making time stop ?	i mean i am okay , mostly boredom .
i am also studying other different languages as well .	it is when you do not know how to speak other languages
english is not so hard to speak	english obviously , french , spanish , and korean . do you speak any other languages ?
i had to learn how to do it .	it was different . i only speak english . i would love to learn spanish .
i have a doll . her name is susie .	hello there sweetie . i am well . how about yourself ?
i have a turtle . his name is shelly . hehe	that is a great name for a pet . i do not have any pets .
no . just a turtle . i have lots of toys .	yes , a cat and a dog . do you ?
i am almost five . i am not little !	i know right ? i was just thinking that . no i am basically like a teenager .
i love pizza . my best friend , lucy , her mommy cooks pizza	yes ! pizza is the best !
i like cheese pizza . olives are yucky .	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
do you get free pizza ? do they make you eat olives ?	where is your grocery store ?
mommy is mad . i did not pick up my toys .	that is a good choice ! whud ?
bye . thanks for talking to me . susie says bye too .	really ? even as a pet ?
uh oh . shelly is running away .	thanks for chatting . have a good day ! they are sweet .
i am doing good . how are you ?	playing video games . what about you ?
cool , i am eating donuts . what do you do ?	i am great , catching up on work
i am of video game tester for call of duty . what did you do ?	i am a video game tester .
it is a war based video game .	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
it is , almost as fun live action roleplay on the weekends .	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
i do not but i did enjoy hacksaw ridge . are you married ?	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
that is amazing . i can not wait to meet the woman i could spend forever with .	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
what school did you go too ?	you plan on pursuing her , even though she is married ? dude not cool
cats are nice . how old are you ?	have any pets , cats or dogs ?
i am 68 , been retired for a few years now .	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
i was a tailor . these days i spend a lot of time at the casino	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
its probably for the best . i also enjoy mowing the lawn on a beautiful day	i see , you like gambling ?
no not anymore . do you ?	yes , i do . a dog and a cat . whats your favorite food ?
animals are better friends than humans .	i have no cats . what kind of dogs do you have
it such a nice day today , thinking about starting the grill	me to see you on the other side !
not much , just came back from iraq . you ?	hi ! i am good . you ?
congrats ! i am in the canadian army , served for 5 years .	you have a lot of medals ?
i worked at an italian restaurant after i left high school .	i like italian too . i think garlic bread should be served at every meal
yeah , i used to make it for my grandfather , he served in ww2 .	oh no , i would not eat it if it was . yuck ! !
yeah my whole family is part of the military and we all enjoy cooking !	yes i believe it lol ! so what kind of food do you like ? i am craving italian !
that is cool ! are you going pro or you are doing it just as a workout ?	lol i like to cook !
sorry i have to go right now ! my wife and kids are back home . see ya !	haha , seems you workout all the time
hey ! after the meal i just had , my day is going great , thanks !	its going good and what about you ?
ooooh , what kind of fish do you have ?	have any pets ? dogs , cats , fish ?
lol ! you are funny ! i fed myself pieces of hamburger and fries !	i have dog . he is so cute !
hope it was especially yummy for you ! and happy belated birthday !	walked right into that one , right ?
i like walking , period ! but yes , especially nature walks . how about you ?	yes , i love going on walks and enjoying nature .
the sun is magical and divine like that . my boyfriend is a sun gazer .	i prefer to get out in nature and hike .
he used to gaze at other what ?	that is cool . its hard to say no to those eyes when he wants some food .
oh dear , i am sorry . totally his loss .	i am still bitter about my past break up , i hope he dies .
hi . i am not doing well . my family does not support my choice of career .	hi , its going well and you ?
i want to work for a watch dealer and i like to shop for watches and shoes .	that is our business ? i am not sure how i can help you .
i really enjoy shopping and my dream is to one day own a rolls royce ghost .	my father was a carsalesman . i turned out to be a very happy person .
running is also quite lovely . breathing in the lovely outside air .	what kind of cars do you enjoy driving ?
yes , and it also helps with depression i have found .	it just seems to run in the family
me too , it is good to know . spread the word to others . better than any medication .	that is true . what is your family life like ?
no problem . always here to help a friend .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
oh , i like to spend time with my cat , nelly .	i like to work on cars and to travel
how are you doing today ?	hello ho ware you today
i have one named charlie its just a pony	i am a musician but i work too . do you have a pet horse ?
his and mine s favorite little snack is pizza	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
he loves it do you have any pets ?	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
that is actually my nickname for my honda civic that is brown	no pets , do you have pets ?
i like music and what about you ?	i like to listen to music
i work with a few different artists	i listen to a little bit of everything .
mainly country and you ?	i listen to a little bit of everything .
i am really great . just got home from a ride on my bike .	hi , doing well and you ?
i am a waitress . it works but i wish i could make more money .	okay , well i enjoy my job . that is a good profession .
my favorite thing is to ride my motorcycle . i do not even have a car .	i like to pay guitar . you ?
what do you look like ?	what is your dream car ?
i have pale skin and large brown eyes . and i wear my bike helmet all the time .	i just have three cars . they are all black .
what kind of music if your favorite to sing ?	if you want i can sing you anything that you want .
i wish i could play instruments . i am not very musically inclined .	i always sing songs very loudly .
i like rock music the most	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
i am well , retired and living my best life ! how about you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
that sounds great . my grandkids would love that !	i sew things like kids outfits and shirts .
i will mention it to them . do you have any hobbies ?	maybe you could write the story to a video game . . .
i understand . i sew my own clothes so i could probably be a recluse too .	i love designing video games . do you have any family ?
that sounds very complicated . i hope it turns out well .	sounds like you have your hands full even in retirement .
like an avatar or something ?	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
i think it will be great !	its just a hobby , but hopefully one day it will be a profession !
well , i did have cancer , but it is gone now .	nothing retired .
i am very well ! i just dyed my hair rainbow	hi , i am good . what about you ?
how is that going ? i am too old to date	do any of those affairs involve saving animals ?
sounds fun ! i am too old to say .	i am a cat baby sitter . love cats !
yes i am an animal rights worker i am very trendy	i still do . it is fun , i love animals .
that is scary that would depress me	risky business all the time !
i used to be . now i just like to watch birds with my kitties	yes ; i stand to be a hippie
sometimes yes . i have to stop them haha	i do not like cats they have something weird about them
why not ? they must want to eat them	i do not like cats they have something weird about them
i am good how are you ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
nice ! are you married ? because i am gong to be in the spring	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
oh wow ! what happened ? 3 months ago was my 24th birthday	so do you teach your kids ? ac in the class room ?
oh , i pursue my personality by working with my kindergarten students	i think it happened . do you not ?
cool , i relax by going out for dinner with my friends	i grew up being a buddhist what relation and type of food do u like
in april , its a spring wedding ! i am so excited !	i am getting married in 6 months
thank you , and i am from the galapagos islands	i am in ohio . what do you do for fun ?
nice , are you a chicago cubs fan ?	i am from chicago . where are you from ?
oh cool , do u think they will beat the astros tomorrow	yes , yankee fan , and you
hello , i am doing very well , thank you . i am getting married soon .	i am doing great . how about you ?
who is eric ? i am hoping taylor swift will agree to sing at my wedding .	for sure . are you married ?
i do not think i have ever seen it . how old are you ?	we should watch game together .
lol . that is awesome . i am so going to use that in a snapchat .	i am 25 , half way to the 50 mark .
social media site . like a cross between facebook messenger and face time .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
it sure does . do you like legos ?	hmmm . you take photos of anything ? i do .
i love purple , what is your favorite ?	i like all colors . they remind me of summer .
those are pretty colors as well . i like yellow .	purple . how about you ?
exhausted driving my five boys around in the mini van everywhere all day .	i am good , i play baseball and you ?
oh no ! what happened ?	ah , well , you should play baseball
hope you learn from that . i could really use a glass of wine tonight !	well i am sorry . it was for the better though if that was the case right ?
glad to hear it . we could meet for coffee my favorite is pumpkin flavor .	oh , i do not think they would want me to drink that during the day
oh you are very young , i am a baseball coach . ever think of playing ?	lol ! ! do you have kids ? i have five
ok . i am with a little league . have any hobbies to keep you busy ?	maybe you and my son can play
that sounds different . maybe read some good books .	i play with my sons and daughter might have a fourth kid soon
i could send you some , my boys have many books . where are you located ?	i would like to read that .
hey ! ! so i have a house warming party for my new apartment with my buddy tomorrow !	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i am just hoping no one brings chicken ! that stuff makes me harf !	that is just super . i am so very happy for you ! i am studying .
cool ! so what do you do for a living ? i am a bartender through college .	i have a dog , can i bring him to the bar too ?
just do not eat too much ! i am going to be a nurse . i would know .	i make chicken nuggets sometimes when i cook . i am a nurse . any other hobbies ?
rebel ! you must have a crazy high metabolism .	i will buy a chicken and eat some , and my dogs eat the rest .
geez . i am 320 . i hate my body . and i eat under 1800 cals a day .	in addition i am over 200 pounds . imagine that !
big is unhealthy . it is not fun .	not really a very small amount .
hopefully i will learn stuff in nursing school .	yeah it is quite unhealthy .
hi my name is katie i was born in 1982 . what about you ?	hi , i am very old u ?
that is awesome ! i love to garden too ! what kind of music do you like ?	what do you grow ? is it anything . . . illegal ?
i like hip hop , new kids on the block is my favorite .	i listen to pop music usually . or top 40 .
no ! my favorite toy as a kid was lite brite because i was so scared !	yes ! they are my favorite .
that would be frustrating ! have you gone on any ?	my mom says that ppl that graduated high school in 80s complain too much .
your father must love you ! how did knowing you were adopted affect you ?	yes since i was a kid
amazing ! do you have any hobbies ?	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
what is the coolest thing you have ever made ? i like to go to concerts .	just as a hobby . painting , drawing , things like that .
hi , my husband is old and adopted . i love coloring farms in books .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
great ! i live on a farm with a dog named trump who watches hockey .	i love animals ! i have one dog .
good luck with retirement . my dog trump is a german shepherd .	you need a dog in your life . they are awesome for these kind of moments .
actor . i adopted a dog and a husband in the same year .	i am retired and loving it .
i did ! i got rid of my husband and kept the dog .	very much so . it is a very rewarding career .
it is ! we farm and watch hockey where i live . what about you ?	i agree ! and thanks very much . i hope it works out .
that is cool ! i color in books to settle my nerves .	we travel a lot and love rural places .
i am good but missing having family connections	hi ! doing well . how about you ?
i like eating papaya when i am sad	hi how are you i am sorry to hear that you will be okay .
when i try to read i say to myself farmer george no time for reading	i like painting flowers and birds .
my bees would love your roses	i also really like flowers gardens , planting , and of course receiving them
yes i am . would you believe farmer george is married to an italian model ?	no , but i do love roses . my family cats named rose .
thank you ! what do you do for fun ?	yes , its why the family loves it . are you married ?
as long as you can hear out of one its all good right ?	i read as well and garden .
well i sure do not talk to my family since they hate me now	i love to create designs and draw
i married magdalena the model and she is the same age as my daughter	my family hates me . i do not get along with them .
they think i am only with her for her looks	they have a love hate relationship .
i sure do . we were meant to be	i am not very close to her .
thank you . i hope you are right !	that is true . what is your family life like ?
you too ! best wishes to you	well , as long as it is fulfilling to you , very nice talking to you !
me too . i love music .	well i like to play video games .
i have short blonde hair so it actually works for me	i like to play the guitar . and video games .
i work at a grocery store but i want to be a fashion designer .	cool i mostly wear video game shirts i love playing video games .
wow that is impressive . i wish i had a dog	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
i live for ruffles and leggings !	dogs are way messy .
do you live somewhere cold ?	cool i mostly wear video game shirts i love playing video games .
i live in north carolina but i want to live in new york .	we live in the south how about you ?
maybe someday . maybe i will be a fitness trainer there .	yes , if you live in new york ,
hey there , i am doing pretty well , you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
i just started my new job two days ago , so same here . nothing i am proud of	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
i just started at what a burger , not sure my position yet , only worked two days	i work with my dad at stifel , a construction company . you ?
fast food , is miserable will not lie . my father wanted me to take over his construction company	i like beer and food ! just need a job to afford some more !
my father could not show love , so i grew up with a lot of materialistic items	well , that is still something to be very proud of !
well , maybe it was more than just lack of love	i think all parents feel that way at one point .
it happens , do you have any hobbies ?	true , where did you grow up ?
i take as much time off as i can to go mountain biking	i love cooking and gardening . . . painting sounds fun
i am alright , living the great retired life . what about you ?	hi ! i am doing well thanks . how about you ?
that must be interesting . do you need a smartphone for that ? i do not have one .	i am in office , are you married ?
that does not sound too bad . do you know how to sew ?	i guess i do not have enough time on my hands .
you should learn ! i can make all of my own clothes .	i may have to try to fit that in then . how many kids
it sure does , and i needed it for my cancer treatments .	kids make is all worth it , right ?
no worries , it is gone now , and i had the support of my kids and grandkids .	well its one thing in your college years . but i am retired and its less risky .
i sure do . do you have a big family ?	that is a lot of grandkids ! what do you like doing with them ?
wow , four siblings . that sure is a lot . must have been busy growing up	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
i am well . i am a homebody that spends a lot of time at work .	hello , i am doing well . another day , another dollar , driving for the man .
i have to try to save money . care sales always change . i hate it .	in your wifi , or wife ?
we eat out a lot . my wife hates cooking and i work so late sometimes	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
when you are forty years old . you do not really care what it is . just eat it	we love to eat out . its hard to come home from work and cook
yeah , been married for 20 years and can not manage to save a dime from work .	you mean it is about saving a big part of your salary
you and my wife both . she has a closet full .	i have a few shoes , 30 to be exact would that be a problem
i keep an open mind . everyone works for a living , some manage better than others .	i hope she says yes .
i do all my car advertising on facebook . i have not really tried twitter	yes , i love that kind so much that i spent my whole 30 , 000 salary on it .
hi how are you today ? i like to walk .	hi ! just sitting here hanging out with my child who is 3 . you ?
that is nice of you . i deliver babies so i am a doctor .	i spend most my day walking dogs . i take care of them for people .
it is a comfortable living . i like spending time with family .	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
i am sorry to hear that . we used to go to disneyland together .	i liem that and spending time with the family
it is alot of fun my favorite character is mickey mouse .	sorry . i read the books , but i have not watched the show yet .
i like him also he is a trip .	he is more goofy than mean , but still
no alot just spending time with my kids . that is nice to volunteer .	my plans are to relax . how about you ?
i like to read books also .	do you watch the show with your family ?
i am great ! just got in from a long walk .	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
it is . i live french fries and burgers so i need to exercise !	neat ! walking outside is great exercise . you walk ?
yes , where do you live ?	lol i can understand that !
that is so nice ! i just bought a house in tennessee . do you like florida ?	i am in florida , it is so nice and sunny here .
that is wonderful . i am working on being healthier . no soda , just water !	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
well it is good for you . do you have any pets ?	what kind of health reasons ? have you tried going on walks ?
i am a huge dog lover ! i have a mutt i adopted from the shelter .	no , i do not have any pets .
i am sorry but glad that you have her !	awww that is cute , i am glad she is okay i hate cancer !
hi ! i am thinking where to go next . i am traveling .	not much , just working on some plans . how are you tonight ?
that would be france , french food is the best . but i have been there , 5 times .	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
are you an athlete ? i try to stay in shape , too .	i would love to travel as well .
do you like swimming in the ocean ? i do .	when you sail on your boat , do you like to swim ? i do !
that is nice . i have a yacht , i love sailing it .	i like to travel sometimes . i like to cook too .
thanks . i wish i could say i earned it . no , inherited .	it is ! for fun , we make boats as well . you should really come and visit !
about two years . i have a captain , so i do not drive it myself .	i do not know how to drive , but maybe one day .
no , i had to hire one . the previous one was too old .	i have traveled all of the world on my yacht recently .
i am good . how are you ?	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
well , i love shopping and pampering myself . i go to the spa a lot !	i am well , sugar . how are you ?
i do not watch much television , but i love music . britney spears is my favorite .	tell me about it . been saving up to go racing again .
that is cool . what is your favorite food ?	lady gaga ! org i could listen to her and madonna all day long
i like mexican food , but i eat salads a lot to watch my diet .	i love mexican food most .
i am a professional model . how about you ?	i am currently self employed .
i do . i love traveling to new exotic places .	i love to travel but i do not have much money right now . do you ?
it is fun , but gets tiresome . what else do you enjoy ?	i cannot afford travel right now . i need a job .
they are ok ! blue is better than purple though .	yes , blue is a lovely color
cool ! my hair is sweaty . i just got back from the gym .	i like blue , what is your best color ?
my husband loves it when my hair poofs out .	that is good exercise ! good for you .
that is crazy ! i hope there are not any animal products in there .	are you married ? i am .
wow , that is great . i support that . i am actually vegetarian myself .	not a vegan , a vegetarian .
that is so beneficial to the world and your health ! nice work .	i am vegetarian . you can get all your nutrition from plants , you know ?
forget that . he probably has diabetes from all the burgers he eats .	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
hi ! just enjoying the sun during vacation . i am at miami beach .	hi ! i am doing well thanks . how about you ?
i am on a school trip . brought some 4th graders . i am their teacher .	i want to teach music , is that a video game ?
10 . after a swim , we are going to play monopoly . board games are the best !	6 , 4 and 2 year olds . how many children would you like to have ? .
my parents are helping , too . they used to teach .	yes , my mom is a school teacher .
later this evening , i am sneaking away to catch up in concert . my fav !	yes ! when i am not at the beach i love to teach it is my passion
a band . semi vacation . my favorite way to spend vacation is at the beach .	yes , love it . great band .
i will do anything to go to the beach ! and i love kids .	how old is your child ? i teach at a very big school so they might go there
oh , yummy ! sounds good right now !	i love chocolate ice cream . you .
cool do you like pro wrestling or not .	i thought you said you were 21 ?
well that is to bad , i am a wrestler my self !	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
cool i like him to . that is why i workout all the time !	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
speaking of fish i made some yesterday . while volunteering at the homeless shelter .	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
no ! but i would like too do so one day .	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
you hike before you go to work ? where do you live ?	i should really exercise daily .
i should travel more often i really like having people around me .	i go everywhere . i live there .
sounds fun . maybe one day !	i watch wwe wrestling to relax .
i am tired from waitressing all day . you ?	doing well , just go out of work . you ?
what did you do all day ?	hello . busy , but good . you ?
as your job or as a hobby ?	singing every chance i get . . . i should have been a singer .
oh nice . i grew up riding motorbikes with dad and i still do it today	so you were the second lowest paid professional , what a i care , i coulda bought your school .
i enjoy country music too	i always sing songs very loudly .
young by kenny chesney is my favorite , also wagon wheel and amazed	i do like country music too good messages in the songs
one of those smart people who always wears a helmet on my motorcycle ?	whats your favorite song or album ?
haha well i have to protect my pretty face and large dark brown eyes	yeah , i think most people do
i guess country . i like walking my german shepherd , barnaby on trails .	no , in a rural area . you ?
very cool . we had a grey cow when i was a child . i love grey colors .	toto your dog ? yeah i use to live in kansas .
when i was young . then my dad went to be a nascar driver .	yes ! and farms i grew up on a big one
right on . i work for the post office . what do you do ?	that is okay for generations farms were inherited .
that is cool . do you enjoy it ?	i work for the postal service , what do you do ?
i drive a grey ford taurus .	i drive for myself . own my own truck .
i do . mostly top 40 and alternative .	no i like to listen in the cab my dad use to drive the good ole days
country music is good also .	i listen to the radio in my truck . mostly country . my dog likes beethoven . a little joke .
very good and how are you doin ?	good afternoon . i am doing well how are you
that is always tiring , have dogs myself	fine and how can i help you ?
wow i have two dogs and one cat	i have 5 they can be a handful
i will keep that in mind , you have any brothers or sisters	do you have any siblings ? any pets ?
only child , i have 4 siblings one brother three sisters	do you have any other siblings ?
yeah mostly especially with my brother	my brothers and i are close , both of them ;
we are from alabama so big roll tide fans	no , i do not watch many sports .
hi , that is nice . i spend my free time gardening and walking outdoors .	i like the outdoors . what work do you do ?
cool . what kind of cars ? i am a school teacher .	i loving driving my car around . any children ?
i teach elementary school . 3rd grade . i also have a dog . do you like dogs ?	i am a full time teacher .
i have a golden retriever named sally .	i like dogs but i do not own any . what is your favorite breed ?
they are very nice dogs . i enjoy taking her on walks .	i have a huge golden one that lives outside the kitchen window . he is called fred .
maybe so . do you sell watches ?	i think i would enjoy walking it .
very nice . maybe i will stop in sometime .	yes ! do you sell that ?
i do enjoy shopping , as i think many women do . i must get going now .	not so much . prefer being indoors shopping .
nice talking . have a good day .	yes , it was nice chatting with you , too !
nice i am in love with taylor swift	i loving driving my car around . any children ?
that is funny , i do not get along with my wife	we love call of duty games
i am getting married after winter , time for an upgrade	lol . i bet they love that
role playing is fun for everyone right ?	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
well i have to stand out right ?	yeah then role play as a character
i am kind of a big deal	yeah , i totally agree about that
i am the greatest ever	so you must be good at debate
well you just do not know yet	yeah , i totally agree about that
i do not like to read .	no , i want you to read your favorite book to me .
do you play video games ?	maybe you could write the story to a video game . . .
that is cool . i play a lot of games	no , i do nothing except play arcade games .
how far along are you ?	i do that too sometimes while i am playing video games on the big screen .
congratulations ! where do you work ?	not six years . six months to getting married
i make jewelry at home and sell it online .	i do not work right now i just play video games
oh that is great ! i love to be creative .	i paint and sell them online . do you know of any other ways ?
how fun ! do you like music ?	i paint and sell them online . do you know of any other ways ?
sounds like my kids ! ha . . stay at home dad here , have to laugh somewhere .	what line of work are you in ?
i bet i am sorry . it is an interesting job choice .	i should go to church , i know i used too .
i stay home with kids now , prior was in human services .	i work the front desk at the best western . what about you ?
i helped families to learn how to live together basically !	i work at office depot . boring .
oh no . is your life a horror movie ? i love those !	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
ohhhh yikes ! that can be purchased at home depot . my dad used to work there .	its not that i like it , it is necessary .
do you own a farm ?	my dad drives a truck . he tought me , now that is my career .
hi . i am a little league coach . i have 5 sons and a mini van .	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
yes , and therefore i drink a lot of coffee , it is my favorite . what is yours ?	yes , do you play ?
i like to have wine some nights on occassion as well .	i gave up coffee after graduating college a few years ago . do you have other vices ?
what kind of job do you have ?	i drink a glass of wine every night for stress
that is not such a bad job . it sounds fun .	i work in the vet but i do life coaching on the side
but at least you get lots of fresh air .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
ah , yes . i have never kayaked . is it fun ?	i drink water most of the time .
very nice . i must go now . have a lovely evening .	i do not do it ton but it is relaxing .
bonjour , i am kay . i am also trying to get out of debt .	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
you and me both ! i cannot play , but sing fairly well . i am looking for a guitarist .	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
you might be my man . or my woman ! i sing oldies . think james taylor .	i like to learn new languages . right now i speak english and french , looking to expand that .
i am sorry ! do you play in your garage ? i consider myself also a francophile .	do you speak spanish ? i love spanish music
ok , that will get you some exposure . any paying gigs or crazy fans ?	i work in a coffee shop , hbu ?
bathrooms provide great acoustics ! so do corridors !	yes , i speak french , english and arabic so we get asked to different countries
i have been there . also sang french and spanish songs on a street corner .	really ? do you speak spanish ?
i love the spanish songs that josh groban sings .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
hey , george here . lets be friends	sure ! are you close to your family ?
i do enjoy it , as a bee farmer	yes , i love it . do you ?
awesome . i really like papaya , my favorite food	so you are following with the family business ! any hobbies ?
i have zero family that i am close to , lets be fam	oh , that sounds delicious . do you speak french ?
awesome . i love dogs they are the best	yes , i don t like dogs really
awesome , well with dogs you can not go wrong	i like dogs , i have one named george .
i play shows , record music , and read	i like to draw and feed my animals
its like radiohead , or slower rock	music . i love all kinds of music .
i am a geek , because i love programming study for it now	i am going just fine , and you ?
i am doing good , and you ? i also teach swimming locally	our dad does of course , you should study computer science when you are older !
that is fine , do you like death metal music ?	i work at a pool , but i do not know how to swim . what do you do ?
i see , i am from india and you ?	that is a really interesting genre . i need to listen to it
do you like eighties music ? i love it .	yes , two cats and 4 dogs , , do you
no , i had a dog and a turtle in the past	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
yeah , i love those bands , you like hard stuff ?	i own no pets . it is sad .
i do not want to talk about my pets	yeah , i definitely like rock more than metal .
what happened to you ? why ?	i mean she should your her mom right ?
why do you get to leave	hi how are you i am sorry to hear that you will be okay .
are you passing away or something	well do not do that . just go get some mexican food . always makes me happy
what did you do to get in there	nah , i do not really understand what your trying to say .
what did you do last time	that is a huge secret . why did you do it ?
why did you do that	good to know , was it for something good ? haha
that must have been embarrassing	i was in an accident once
i am sorry about that	i am shocked that i admitted that .
oh , i just like gardening .	hello , i do . reading and gardening .
that is cool , i got a job just now in a gas station	my dad worked as a cook , bartender . too hard for me so i fish .
i had a spiderman comic as a kid . my adopted parents gave it to me .	i also draw the comic , do you know how ?
clowns do not though , they scare me .	the parents were not too happy but it was super funny .
no , but my dad keeps setting me up on blind dates .	yes , my mom have no work . i was adopted and it scares me a lot .
i did have a traumatic experience about that .	yes , my mom have no work . i was adopted and it scares me a lot .
yeah , until then , keep those clowns away from me .	i think it is something that just happens with age . how are you doing today ?
i am doing good how are you ?	i am doing good ! what is your father ?
i am well thank you . i got brand new job today ! i am a life coach	hi , i am doing well , how about you
wow , i love our soldiers . thank you for serving our the country !	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
how nice ! that is a wonderful cause .	that is great . maybe you should cut and donate it .
animals are wonderful . as a cancer survivor , my cat was always near me .	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
i love green . i just bought some green shorts to wear to a marathon .	my favorite colors and blue and red . any other hobbies ?
blue is nice . i wear blue sweats when i run . i love running , strengthens me .	hmm probably blue but i usually wear green !
nice ! my parents are both very athletic . they encouraged me to stay fit .	i am trying to make money running marathons .
hi good thank you . i am wanda , age 60	hello , i am fine and you ?
that is very good . i work in a library . how about you ?	well i like to grow food and have a good local supply .
good for you ! i love traveling . . . do you like to travel ?	i do not work , just travel .
twitter is fun , yes . ever been to spain ? i have .	i really should travel since i will be retiring in 6 months .
that is a good thing to do . do they work well ?	you would love it , it is a good place to retire .
no , neither . i will probably retire in several years , so probably will be lonely	married 12 years , 2 kids . they are cute , but zap all my energy .
kind of . . . but i am 60 , so i do not know how realistic it is	yes . sure . this day , last year , my husband died .
aw you are nice . . . i like your way of thinking	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
awesome ! my parents are taking me to disney world again this year . every year !	i am good just watching a movie
do you let your kids play on the playground ? i do that . it is fun !	the kids will have lots of fun with you when they are older .
that is so cool ! mr morris , my third grade teacher , we have a class dog !	i love to play with my dogs !
when i grow up , i want to sing the songs that i love from frozen .	i also take online classes . what is your favorite disney movie ?
i want to be famous , like mickey mouse . he is my favorite . i love disney !	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
do you sing songs from the frozen movie ?	org i love disney !
my parents said that karate is a sport . i take karate .	no it is just for fun . sometimes we compete in disney .
visit spain in my free time when not working as a librarian . you ?	i am a librarian and love to read books in my spare time .
how wonderful ! i may move there in a few years when i retire .	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
yes ! i am in a group for planning and stickers which seems silly at 60 .	yes , but i love to read used books mainly .
aw ! what else do you like to do ?	i love dogs ! i am going to adopt one pretty soon !
i love it ! we have an old farmhouse but only have cats .	we travel a lot and love rural places .
he sounds like a sweetheart .	we need something in our lives beyond cats and dogs !
watching the grand kids grow up , hot teas , holidays . you name it !	i really should travel since i will be retiring in 6 months .
it is ! i love this life .	which holidays do you celebrate ?
hi ! just finished my mega dose of twitter today . how about you ?	yes . i think it will be fun .
no can do on the playground . too busy surfing the net all the time !	i am currently studying asl at university . i could accomodate .
are you male or female ? women rule the world , you know !	that is a great idea ! ! ! yes !
no mickey mouse here he is a he ! besides , gotta pay for my solar panels .	i am not going to disney , but i will survive ! haha . . .
roof . make sure at disney you only eat organic . that is the way to go !	yes each family member owns a seperate house .
good . only buy organic , because its good for you .	what do you buy online ? i wish i can shop all day online .
have fun ! and stay safe out there .	yes ! ! i would absolutely love that . do you do anything else for fun ?
i will think about it . but i have a feminist march to attend later .	i would love to . are you active on a social media platform ?
i am doing good , how about you ?	i am good just working on my car and you ?
cool , what is your favorite type of music ? mine is country	i am am doing good just listening to music
that is cool , classical is nice at times . what are your hobbies ?	i have an old mustang that i fixed up myself .
what animals do you have ? i enjoy working on vintage cars ; i won two mustangs	i like helping other , supernatural and classic cars
awesome ! i own 2 dogs , love them	i have two dogs ! they enjoy running around my farm
precious and sammie . what are the names of your animals ?	the names are one , two , and three .
oh wow ! twenty ! that is a lot !	i have a lot of animals . 4 to be exact .
i love animals , always have . they are amazing	do you have other animals on your farm ?
hi good morning , of course what is the secret	why would you like to be a dog ?
oh wow you are like a super hero , i just want to be a dog	chocolate is always good . would you like to hear a secret ?
i want to be a yorkie . . . i like chocolate candy too yummy	a pug called tiki ! haha , i am not a people person either . prefer dogs .
i am a girl and i like playing with my blocks they are so colorful	i do not . sometimes i feel like a kid !
oh wow they are so much fun i want a lot of legos when i turn 5	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you grow up ?
i love that , i want to play blocks and sing	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you grow up ?
i like paw patrol because i want to be a dog	yes scobby doo is a funny cartoon i love to laugh .
i like marshal he is awesome , adults never understand what i am saying lol	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you grow up ?
hi . that is an interesting combo ! i love cars .	i wish i had time for that but i have to save money for a car .
that is neat . where do you work ? i have a great work at home job .	what you do not have any money ? they have programs for you .
that is cool ! i go to the gym a lot with my girl friends . they are great !	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
i am lazy though sometimes . i love binge watching tv .	i am sure you stay busy then . what do you do for work ?
i love narcos ! better call saul is a favorite of mine as well !	he is pretty great . do you watch television much ?
lol ! i guess you could be . i am not sure that all would agree though .	yes but i love meat .
they should be more understanding . my boyfriend and his girlfriend are sometimes really judgemental about food .	ha ! that would make them pay attention to me for sure !
i am . it is interesting . honestly that is horrible ! that poor cat .	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
but . . . . . the poor cat .	yes , it requires an upper level of comprehension , i suppose .
very late night here . i am good . how are you ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
dance is medicine . painting used to be mine . what danger were you in ?	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
i am so sorry , but so glad you were both rescued and are safe .	i am sorry , that was really devastating !
as a woman and a mother of two , i am so sorry , but glad that stopped . too .	i am so sorry to hear that ! are you married ?
i do not take it for granted .	i am . my work allows for extensive world travels . i am lucky .
i am happy for you that you get to enjoy what you deserve .	it is one of my absolute favorite things .
have you tried fries with melted cheese ? !	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
comfort food if ever there was one !	yes , i can make different flavors that i like !
that is to bad , where is your family	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
what do you do to pass the time	where is your family from ?
do you get to go to school	i stay home to take care of the kids .
very funny , do you get to read , i find it relaxing	they like to drive me nuts and ask for money
do you get to exercise	yeah i find it too funny .
what are you going to do when you get out	yeah , i like to read
i like to walk , at least 3 miles	i play basketball on the weekends
that sounds like a good idea	do you have a family
i am cool thanks . you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
nice , i live with my folks too . only in grade 10 here .	what is your job ? i am still in school .
study biology and practice running long distances . how about you ?	i am still a high school student lol , what do you do ?
that is the best . i do that whilst i do homework . my grades rule !	i love music . what do you listen to ?
rock music , it is good to work out too . i want to train people .	classical , rock , classical rock . ll . music is great for the mind .
physical therapy , helping the injured and disabled . it is my calling .	physical therapy , i have a job with the local highschool . i am their coach .
food is important , health is too . you are a farmer ?	well i like to grow food and have a good local supply .
very cool . i will run a marathon someday , like my father did .	yes , i do . and thanks ! what do you want to do when you grow up ?
healthy for a 40 year old car salesman .	hi ! doing well . how about you ?
wrestler ! wow you must be fit and healthy .	fair enough . does your husband have a good job ?
financially , i can not afford a gym . the money gets spent by my wife .	how often do you work out ? i work out 5 times a week
great , i hope you do not get to see me there .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
between wife , job with no money , i am thinking now of divorce .	it will be a struggle but i have to do what i have to do .
do you give demonstrations of your skills ?	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
wrestlers and actors are in same category , i think .	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
i am well , i just finished rehearsal . i sing country !	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
i know ! sadly , only people who are in the industry for a long time know that .	cool ! does she like to sing songs also ? i sing many
i like to play guitar and explore national parks !	i play guitar but i study music industry .
what kind of diets have you tried ?	i see ! must make a lot of money for yourself !
that is alright , as long as you are passionate with what you like !	i tend to recommend a high protein diet . it helps that i fish lol
i like rascal flats , they are my favorite band .	well most of the time i stick to my passions .
they sang life is a highway in the movie cars !	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
i see , what are some of your favorite movies ?	i have seen a couple versions of that movie . its a great story
that sounds like a really fun time . i was just meditating	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i am buddhist , my spiritual journey relaxes me	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i quit my job to devote more time to my spiritual journey	what do you do ? i teach yoga classes
i have not spoken a single word in three months , this is the only way i communicate	why ? i teach yoga , maybe that can help .
it is easy being in alaska , there are not many people around	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
you can , i do enjoy meditating under them	yes , its a lovely place . you should visit sometime !
that sounds like a spiritual experience to me	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
hi i am eating shawarma for lunch ! its my favorite	hello , what are you up to ?
that sounds good too . what do yo do for a living	oh , you in the military ?
wow a gold medal that is great . i am a in the canadian army	have you ever been overseas ?
i really like american football . i am a steelers fan	i like competitive sports and winning .
that is cool . what event did you win the medal in	i really love playing football american football that is
when i am not working i am exercising and spending time with family	just graduated school is fun . these games are fun to pass time .
i use to workout like that but i became unhealthy from it	i should really exercise daily .
i did not eat enough to handle my workout so burnt more than i ate	yeah , it will keep me motivate to stay away from unhealthy diet
i am doing well . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
what is wrong ? my wife is a doctor if you need help .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh , are you still in high school ?	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
i hated school too but i became a professional tennis player .	no . . . . in high school ! how about you ?
oh , so it is the people , not the academia , that you are having a problem with ?	no , i stopped playing after high school . do you have pets ?
oh , wow . i wish i had that problem when i was in school .	i am not much of a dog person so i do not think we would get along .
why ? redheads are beautiful ! we keep on having red haired babies !	i do wish i was a dog , i think life would be easier !
i had problems in school . when you get older it does not matter .	i do wish i was a dog , i think life would be easier !
now i own a three storey house with the love of my life , our babies , and my dog .	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
you will . probably better . just keep working hard and do not listen to them !	well as long as it makes you happy then keep doing it .
hey ! good , how are you ?	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
how old are you ?	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
40 from ny , how about you ?	i am 32 , how old are you ?
i hear ya on that . what do you do for a living ?	what state do you live in ?
oh cool . i sell cars , really dislike it . not much money to show for it either	i am a car salesman
i do but my wife takes it all unfortunately	yes , but it does not pay very well .
i will be leaving her soon . are you in college ?	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
i am sorry but do not worry	no i am still in school i am sorry you got divorced
hi ! i just sat down to listen to some classical music .	i am fine thank you how old are you .
being a christian i also like christian rock . do you like to read ?	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
never been there . i love to ride on my tractor . i love the outdoors .	i prefer reading . i especially love the bible .
i do ! i am very different from my sister . she is a pole dancer in a club .	i love the outdoors as well .
with a campfire and cast iron pans .	but i can cook really good i enjoy it .
i just purchased a beautiful red sweater . red is my absolute favorite color .	i love to cook , so i will be doing a lot of that .
i love to crochet ! it is time to start thinking about the holidays !	i also love to sew .
i never used a loom but will have to try sometime .	i also love to sew .
hello ! i am lonely . how about you ?	hi . . i am good . . how about you
i am the only one with superpowers . others do not understand me .	i wish it could be my reality .
i can make time stop . have you ever wished for this before ?	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
i like to because although i am a small girl it shows my powers .	well its not that i do not want to . i have just never really had a reason .
i can . does getting married mean you do not feel lonely ?	yes . planning a wedding can be overwhelming .
what else do you need to accomplish ?	yes . i feel like it is fulfilling though .
that sounds very exciting and busy !	are you still in school ? i am a teacher of little kids .
i am still very young .	i am 26 . do you have any hobbies ?
well , i have really short hair and it is blonde . how about yourself ?	hi , its going well and you ?
it is freezing outside , i enjoy wearing skinny jeans and leggings . and you ?	i do not look bad i guess . i am comfortable . its been nice talking to you cutie
oh wow , me too . my favorite shirts are flannel ruffle sleeves and any nirvana band shirt .	yeah , i like playing video games lol and you ?
sure , i have super computer that i enjoy playing video games and listening to music on .	lol yes , what music do you like ?
of course , it is the wallpaper for my computer	yep , unlike the video games . haha
yes . what music do you listen when driving your rolls royce ?	yes because i am so fit , it makes me feel confident .
i love listening to dolly parton , with the top down so everyone can listen as well .	i listen to a little bit of everything .
in my online role play game i always run around streaking , so all can watch and admire .	as they say , you do you boo .
i am only 4 years old . how old are you ?	sure i like sitting watching the sunsets do you ?
really why ? my birthdays are great !	i am fine thank you how old are you .
that is sad . just get anew one . that is what i do when i loss a doll .	that is sad . i am sorry you feel that way . please do not put yourself down !
yes i have a turtle . i love him .	yes , i have 3 dogs , 1 cat , and 1 fish . how about you ?
snaps he is a snapper . whats your fishes name ?	i also have a turtle name george . do you have pets ?
my friend who lives next to me has a dog .	i have dog . he is so cute !
blue . me and my best friend play dolls a lot . what do you do ?	i like whatever color you are .
yes her name is mel . do you have a favorite class ?	i do not . do you ?
hey there ! i just got back from one of my dog agility classes .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
it went great . my dog did awesome . what do you do ?	hello , it was good . how about yours ?
the obstacle course for dogs . i compete with larry my border collie .	i am a dog trainer . i could use a little yoga in my life .
ah too bad ! i work at a barnes and noble . chemistry grad .	i do not eat any animal products myself . i do love books though .
oh man . that is terrible . you grew up with no mom .	she lost her job a few months ago .
wow . bad luck . do you dance by any chance . weekends i do .	well , she is was born with it , and knew it was a possibility but . .
i never dress up . always casual . fashion is not important to me . how about you ?	nah , i do not really understand what your trying to say .
well , it has been different chatting with you tonight . so long .	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
i am wishing i could go out with my friends but mom and dad will not let me	hello ! any plans for today ?
i want to move out so i can have fun with my friends whenever i want	in a place far far away , you ?
like your pets ? or are you a furry who dresses up ?	i would prefer to hang out with friends and family
when i have extra time i work at burger king . its kind of gross	i love kittens ! so adorable , yes .
oh are you a vegetarian or vegan ?	i bet . animals get attached .
i am more focused on my friends . i do not drink or smoke like they do though	not a vegan , a vegetarian .
i am only 19 but definitely ready to move out on my own	like duh ! you said that . so you must be in the country ?
why do you get blue around the holidays ?	i also love blue !
good , just got home from a run , its my favorite thing to do .	hey , i am doing good , how about you ?
my parents got me into running , they are very fit and trim	what games are your favorites ?
i am online some but like to be outside prepping for my marathons	what kind of games are you into ?
i just started as a life coach , i could help you get motivated	did you finish high school ? i ended up dropping out .
do you like to cook ? i do so i can eat clean , its important .	you need to have a dual purpose then working out
frozen food is bad , full of nitrates .	i like to eat foods that are healthy .
clean eating is the way to go , you heard it from your personal life coach !	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
be positive , you can can do it . do you like walking outside ?	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
my name is eduardo and i am thirteen	hello , i am mia . how are you doing ?
that is not ok , my older brother used to do that	my sister is in grade one . are you a student ?
wow lol ! stick to sports ! i play soccer !	you play ball in high school ?
that is not good ! practice your balance !	i played a little bit of soccer in school , but was never really good at it
lol that would be really funny to watch	i am sure you will ! soccer is always fun !
lol , what is his or her name ?	i am sure you will ! soccer is always fun !
no i just own a giraffe his name is earl	i am a pro soccer player
interesting names ! how did you come up with those ?	what kind ? what is his name ? ! woof woof
hi i love to eat donuts while driving in my ford pinto .	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
yes spanish do you play games ? i like call of duty	same as ll but in spanish ! !
no , but i roll play on the weekends	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
brown with pink dots , do you got a favorite band ?	black flag as well . do you play call of duty ?
my favorite band is insane clown posses .	we love call of duty games
no what is donut in spanish ?	same as ll but in spanish ! !
haha to funny . i once ate 12 donuts did not feel great .	i can only speak english and spanish . what do u do for work ?
soda and candy was playing call of duty heavy .	haha . i would probably get those replaced .
i am good how are you doing	good how are you doing ? are you in school
that is always nice are you in school	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
yeah i am graduating high school this year	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
yeah i want to go into physical therapy	no i am in high school . do you understand your feelings ?
yeah what do you do for a living	in school i always get good grades so i can reach my goals in life
what do you do for a living	i am still in high school
that is cool do you like it	i currently learn in college
lol the perks of the job	omg ew , i never eat that anymore lol
yes , i have played chess in the past .	yes , do you play ?
i love animals , how about you ?	my favorite is playing tennis with my friends and two sisters . i love dogs .
not at the current , moment .	no pets , do you have pets ?
i live with any animals .	no pets . do you listen to music ?
i do not live with any animals .	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
maybe in the future , i have to think about it .	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
chess is a tough game to play .	i wish i knew how to play .
hi i am well , what is your favorite food ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
oh wow i have never heard that before . i eat kosher only	i like the food ! can you cook all the good mexican foods too ?
i have taken a second job as a stunt double , it is fun !	i like to read a lot , mostly the dictionary
i like robots a lot ! i just read about one in a book	so we have that in common lol . who is your fav character ?
oh cool ! i just finished my twentieth book this year !	i prefer designing the games but playing them is a good way to gain inspiration !
i have watched many streams when i lived with my dad	i was on the design team for that game !
oh i am sorry about that , i only had one parent	i can relate with that . my life is not very exciting ! ! ! ! !
well we could go to the movies if you like	sorry ! it was a mistake
i am good , i just made a huge pot of paella . how are you ?	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
i love fresh veggies ! although , i am a sucker for a good fish and chips !	yes but i do some of it as well .
i am in college , i cannot keep a pet . do you like to travel much ?	i have dog . he is so cute !
i understand . i am an art major , so i live for the summer .	i love to travel . at least once a year , i go somewhere .
weekends , i am usually busy with school . on my long breaks though , i visit europe .	i love cooking big italian meals after church on sunday .
most women do shave . my favorite country to visit is italy . what is yours ?	i have not traveled been busy with school .
i have never been there . perhaps some day . do you travel alone ?	australia , italy , hawaii , thailand . what about you ? i could go on and on .
i enjoy sailing very much , i am related to columbus , so its in my blood .	i do love to walk , hike also .
how are you doing today	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
how many dogs do you have	good , just been walking my dogs
i have one dog and a cat	i have two dogs and a cat
yes . my husband and i just had our first kid .	i am not in a relationship currently , no .
we had a boy named taylor	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
i work in a vegan restaurant	i run my own business so no time for sports
that would be really great	i run my own business so no time for sports
do you have a large family	really ? i have two dogs and a cat
doing dandy . what are you doing right now ?	i am great , i am baking cookies ! how are you ?
just baking some cookies for a light night snack ! i love baking cookies !	i decorate cakes at a local bakery ! and you ?
oh wow , my doge just came onto my lap .	hmmm . i buy dog biscuits every day . you own a dog ?
a shiba . his name is gabriel .	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
that is pretty cool . what do you do as a hobby ?	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
ahhh . well , i love to knit , my grandma had taught me to knit since i was little !	i work as a nurse . you ?
well , when i have spare time , i always help out at the county wide bake sale .	i do not work . i just bake and take care of my kids . . . you ?
same , i try to present the cookies i can to the sale .	i can teach you to bake , i used to be a chef but now i just teach .
hey lets get to know each other	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i survived a battle with cancer	ahahah , vegetable farm . where do you live btw ?
it was not that bad	its ok sometimes but i think i rushed into it
yes i get high off chemotherapy	no , that is just crazy .
i am a eater who is clean	that is gross to cook , all of that blood to clean up
i completely agree with you there	that is gross to cook , all of that blood to clean up
i love to run and participate in marathons	true . and good places to run . though not as necessary
its a must . got to keep the cancer away	yes you feel very healthy living that lifestyle
no , i have a real job and a 2011 degree from yale	i do finance for a local business
hey , i never said that ! i am from manhattan , i am used to that .	if you were rich you would not be saying this .
yes , i graduated from yale at the age on 9 .	not really . but i m still pretty young so i don t have much experience with it .
my parents are bankers , they are training me to take money from helpless goyim .	no . my parents are very rich .
i keep my pet monkey bobo in the trunk of my bmw	i do not have any pets . i just graduated with a masters degree !
it is ok , i feed bobo cats . it is the circle of life .	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
that is a good question . my family was generally humorless .	hmmm . i teach financial business classes . you ?
doing well , just got off of work at my new job at the gas station .	hi ! good thanks , and you ?
it is a job for now . i really prefer working with plants and gardening .	i like to do it mostly outside tho , love it .
how long do you have to stay in the center ? my parents would kill me .	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
my parents adopted me when i was young . they were older and old fashioned .	i think all parents feel that way at one point .
that is awesome . are you scared there ? i am so scared of clowns .	that would be my mother . she has done so much for me .
maybe you can date when you get out . my dad tries to get blind dates for me .	i am not worried at all !
i have not gone on one yet . he just keeps trying to set me up .	believe me , they like it .
congrats ! do you use twitter a lot ?	i am a blackjack fiend . you like one man punch ?
i never got into twitter , probably because i am a little older than 30 .	do you have any pets ? me 2 dogs !
i can be sometimes but mostly facebook . i post a lot of picture of my dogs .	oh yes , well you can get online and chat i reckon
i have two dogs . do you have any pets ?	dogs , dogs , and more dogs . i love them
it is , but i am single so i do not mind spending the money .	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
where do you live right now ?	does it pay well ? i worry about money and want a good career .
me too but it is hard being in a big city when you do not drink .	i stay in a big city how about you ?
it is , but i have other hobbies like playing chess .	is your current role in the big city where i live ?
i am great because taco tuesday is coming up soon . are you celebrating ?	i am doing well . i live in alabama
you seem like a very positive person .	not at work yet i go tonight how is yours going ?
i know what you mean . i just recently lost my dog .	i do not think you can help because my dog just passed a minute ago .
yes . my sisters and i looked for him everywhere but we never found him .	oh no , did he get in trouble ?
congratulations ! that is great ! is it a one story or two ?	i had a dog but he passed away .
wow ! no way ! what are you going to do with all that space ?	of course it is !
oh , of course . i would build an indoor swimming pool on every level .	i build drones and get paid for it !
maybe you can build a waffle bar on one of those floors .	haha ! do you have brothers or sisters ?
i am talking to you from my ping pong match on break .	i play piano and guitar
yes it is . more money for my chocolate bars i love so much .	of course i would win
yes . because my real job is teaching violin and guitar in chinese .	i agree . since playing the piano i could may earn some money doing that lol
my father , who is chinese , might can get you a job as an electrician .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
good . i talk chinese so i would teach you to talk to father .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
yes i can teach you that .	i have never listened to chinese music . can you recommend something ?
oh i was too . in chinese , guitar , and violin . ping pong too .	no , i do not have her skills . maybe one day i could learn .
i am feeling a little lonely .	am fine and am zitah
i am too young to know .	www that is no good .
from my view , there are not a lot of people out tonight .	believe me , they like it .
no , unless you count using my superpowers .	i do not do much . i just try to enjoy living .
i have the ability to make time stop .	i like to give people shots .
no , i have not learned how to yet .	maybe so . i stay in mostly so i would have time to .
it would be nice . i like to stop time when i am feeling stressed .	maybe so . i stay in mostly so i would have time to .
i do not go shopping very much .	i love trying new restaurants and window shopping .
hi ! what country are you from ?	hello where are you from ? i am fine
i am in the us . i love my dogs and eating .	i live in ca , where are you from ?
that is awesome ! congratulations ! i workout a lot . do you ?	you are lucky , they always get in the way when i workout .
the treadmill is my favorite , that and the rowing machine .	i work out a lot almost everyday so that is one option ! !
good , we need good teachers	where do you work ? i want to be a gym teacher .
i have to since i eat all the time	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
he has a child from a previous marriage ?	i need a dog that generous , are you married ?
that is common . i would like to have children in the future .	no , the relationship i am in is committed .
it is cold here too , where are you from ?	how cold is it right now ?
oh wow ! i am in colorado , i am outside a lot too .	do you live in canada ? i have never been there .
i mostly hike when the weather is nice , but too cold now !	what car do you have ? we just have trucks on the ranch i live at
i love farms , i am behind a desk , since i am an engineer .	you just stay on the farm ?
maybe i try to get the stress out by rock climbing after work	hmmm . what line of work are you in ? i am an engineer .
i do . what do you like to do ?	yes , for sure . that is why i love to hike and climb , clear my mind !
if i had a truck , i could take my lab trooper all over everywhere !	i also enjoy listening to country music .
yes ! he is a black lab , would hang his head out the window .	do you enjoy fixing trucks ?
nice , majority of my time i am on facebook	wow , full house . that is really nice . do they get along ?
like on tv ? i am obese and unhappy	there is nothing wrong with that !
i would love to hear more i work at a retirement home	i could never do that . . . although i do believe i can do anything , but not that
thank you for that , you are what you believe ?	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
so , i should be able to lose weight ?	yes , i believe in that sincerely . how is work for you ?
i feel a lot better hearing that	i am over weight and feel like it is a necessary evil
i want that , i have struggled for 10 years	yes that is true with most anything is not it ?
i am going to start this positive thinking	i can understand that completely more power to you
hi have you watched element animation yes i am fine	i am doing fine and you ?
it is on y o u t u b e	oh , you could just watch i guess
were do you live . a no	i work in a school
how old are you and same for me	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
congrats to you i am 11 working on my mom account	how old are you this year ?
to earn money for myself . i hate drugs do . do you play games	i understand that . i am in school right now .
yes what your name mine is z a d e n	mostly video games . how about you ?
oh my mom says that i can not play them that they are bad for me	i play a fancy fashion game .
guten tag ! i watching some food network .	hi , doing well and you ?
that is good ! i am still finding work from my move from germany .	have any pets ? dogs , cats , fish ?
that is cool . right now , i spend my time with my hobbies roller coasters and skydiving .	so you were the second lowest paid professional , what a i care , i coulda bought your school .
i am too ! my partners love to go swimming , but i am awful at it .	ah fair enough . i do alot of both .
i prefer my roller coasters and thrills .	i like swimming . i can actually jump straight up out of the water
i am less than a novice swimmer . i excel at drowning .	i am more of a roller coaster junkie ! !
that is interesting . what was the bet ?	o wow , how did you manage that ?
ah . that is a tough bet . i do not follow sports .	lol that is was so funny haha
i am from chicago i do tours at the museums	hello where are you from ? i am fine
o ok what do you like to do	where are you from if you do not mind me asking
i would love to do that but being partly deaf i do not know	i would like to dance in a library
i am single my big collection of books at home keeps me company	haha ! no , not married . . . probably wo not be to be married but its ok
yes they are whats your favorite drink mine is fancy tea	i like to read but depends on the book really
o ok well what do you like to do ?	i love sweet tea also
well make sure to make time for something fun	i love to read books lots of books
well i hope it only gets better from here	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
bugs bother me but scorpions are the absolute worst	i do like chocolate , and tiramisu .
i like grey it is the color of my room , my car , and pretty much my life	really ? what are you allergic to ?
bake sales have people . i work for the post office , it keeps me away from people	what is your favorite thing to bake ?
in to conspiracies ? nascar drivers , like my dad , say their owners are aliens	i am not sure what that is . i am sorry .
whatever . where does death by scorpions fall on your list ?	wow , i wo not lie that sounds absolutely terrible .
death is not so bad . it is grey and a lot like working overtime	it is unclear what you are referring to . do you drive ?
my mom knitted me a grey and brown scorpion once . i hate her .	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
where does getting stabbed by knitting needles rate ?	i am sorry i do not know how to fix a car .
hi , do you like to travel ? i love spain so much .	hi i am fine thank you and yourself .
i am fine , how old are you ? i am 60 .	do you like dogs ? i have one .
i work as a librarian , i do not get to walk much which i really need to	i love dogs , i have two of them .
spain is a country that i had been for six times .	yeah i bet you get to travel all the time .
i love to collect olympic key chains from all over the world when i travel	i have never really had the need to travel there . heard many stories tho .
why not ? maybe you do not like to travel ?	but my first goal is to visit all the places of the world .
would you like to go to spain ?	i really wish i could travel the world .
i do suggest spain , the place is really nice with great people .	i would love to visit there . never really traveled , guess we wo not now .
i am from , orlando , do you like to play with dolls ? i do	i am from boston ma
that is cool , my best friend next door dances alot	i have a pet , do you have any pets ?
you were born in somalia ? are you still there ?	where did you grow up ?
good , if you like it here . do you have any toys ?	i have lived in many states . how about you ?
i do , thanks for asking . do not always put them away however . . . what do you do ?	yeah i have a pet turtle and a hamster
your culture is diverse , all i have is a turtle companion , how did it work out ?	i have been a house wife since we started trying to have kids .
i think i will try dancing with scruffy , my turtle	we learned square dancing in school last year . . . i had to dance with a girl !
do you have a job ?	yes , would love to be that . so you have any pets ?
one time i had my lighter set too high and my mustache caught on fire	hello , i am just relaxing after yoga , you ?
but i later found out the russians hacked my lighter and caused that	i grew up being a buddhist what relation and type of food do u like
i use to work for the cia and i caught a russian spy , not personal	that is a horrible thing to say !
man a horse can kick you so hard , you go flying	i was also raised as a buddhist .
i am not saying it was aliens , but it was aliens	lol i was raised a buddhist so cooking is not really my thing either
ask not what your country can do for you , but what you can do for africa	they said it was wild .
i live on the moon	i travel . to foreign countries mostly .
one time i had this old peanut butter and i used it to seal my car engine	i am not sure really its been so long
hi i am doing good . was just reading a book trying to relax .	i am well , so tell me about your family ?
how long was your walk ? everyday i walk three miles .	it has been hard for me to walk my dogs , i have 4 .
what else do you like to do ?	if you have a dog , it would help you both out ! you can walk slow too .
that is nice . i like to spend time with my family as much as possible .	i like to spend time with my family
i am a stay at home mom . i just love taking care of my family .	i work from home . it is great for my family . you ?
where do you like to go when you are off in the summer ?	i love to read before i go to bed . it helps me to relax .
i cannot get enough of disneyland ! i love mickey mouse !	i love to travel . i want to go to canada next .
it is always so exciting and magical !	do you travel ? i go to disney world each year with family .
yes , i have a job at a nursing home and on facebook a lot .	sure , do you have any kids ?
i have a son who is 8 he lives with his mom , she left me .	so you have 12 children ? i could not even imagine that
yes he does , even though i do not really believe in god .	i know , hopefully he will change his mind for the sake of the children .
how cool ! mickey is a pretty cool dude .	maybe he will let you borrow one of his .
that is cool i do not go to parks i need to lose weight .	org i love disney !
oh , i am not a very happy person i would just bring everyone down .	you are in a wheelchair or your kids are ?
well maybe i will plan a trip with my kid next year .	yes , its a lovely place . you should visit sometime !
oh that would be cool , i hope he love us both though .	i know , hopefully he will change his mind for the sake of the children .
michigan , i broke my arm	growing up on a farm , it is different
i always wear a hat , no meds	no , i got out last year .
my favorite skateboarder is rob dryden	you should try skateboarding , it could help you lose weight .
no , he is like my friends all skateboarders	no i drink just water .
yeah would be bad to see skateboarders drunk , huh ?	you should try skateboarding , it could help you lose weight .
city life is the best life	but i still rock on a skateboard ! serious
yeah , holding a pizza , it was pretty cheesy	no , i used to . not any more though . how about you ?
it sure , your favorite toppings ?	haha , yeah ! i like that !
hi my name is jessica . what is yours ?	hello , what is your name ?
i work at a restaurants called panera	i am a freelance artist .
its ok . i am a cashier . i like the people and managers are really nice .	i do but not professionally just for fun .
i like to go to the gym .	i love to go to the gym and play games
no . i just like to workout .	i am a personal trainer . i love to stay active . what about you ?
i am actually an artist .	i am a personal trainer . i love to stay active . what about you ?
well , not yet . i am working on it .	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
hi ! i see things . . . a lot .	hello how are you
i am an alcoholic , but i am recovering	tell me about yourself . what are some of your hobbies ?
i am from the farm but i am now in the city	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
i hate shopping . i let my girlfriend do it	i do love to shop . what do you like to shop for ?
i am not a big fan of expensive stuff or care about material things	go to a lot of concerts .
are you a teenage girl ?	i go to many concerts and party
this is honestly so funny	i like to eat brunch
i am kind of sad because my ex dumped me for a lawyer , you ?	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
that is awesome that means you are very open minded .	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
nope , i prefer to stay inside , i am a recording engineer and own my own studio .	yes very much i love sports
awesome , how old are you ?	i love dogs ! what kind do you have ?
i am 46 yrs old i live in california and i have 46 kids .	i am 25 , half way to the 50 mark .
i hire multiple baby sitters to take care of my kids , i am a single dad .	kids make is all worth it , right ?
i have to do work a lot to take care of my kids it is actually draining	yes . i think everyone has that one ex .
when they all turn 18 i will be happy , lol .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
i am good but i really do not like school .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i am 12 and the kids pick on me because i have long red hair .	my kid just graduated college and that make me feel old
i like it and my eyes are bluer then any of theirs .	blue and red are mine . its hard to pick one lol
arizona . where do you live ? i play video games when i finish my homework .	from tennessee , how about you ?
what is that big word shawarma ?	i live in canada at this time .
what is that big word shawarma ?	meat lovers is always the best choice .
oh , i like burritos a lot .	i like to play video games
i like to ride horses and play softball .	wow , that is a different variety .
very well . cookies sound awesome . just jamming to new kids .	i am great , i am baking cookies ! how are you ?
my home would be the dance studio . i still take weekly lessons .	what is your favorite thing to bake ?
my favorite is old school hip hop though , do you like to dance ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
do not think much about that , even though i was born in the early 80s .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
yes , but i wish i still had my lite brite doll from when i was a child .	its just a hobby , but hopefully one day it will be a profession !
she was my favorite , along with new kids on the block . you ?	yes ! you are beautiful and wonderful and the best person for your kids ! believe it !
those are great also . dogs are probably my favorite animals .	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
yes , we have three dogs and a few fish .	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
i am alright , just hanging with my dog charlie . what about you ?	hey . i am doing well . how about yourself ?
nice ! where do you work ? i am a music producer .	i am at work . texting during work .
wow , that sounds very exciting . do you get hurt often ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
definitely . what kind of music do you like ? i prefer rap .	i do , but i am not very good at it . is it a hobby of yours ?
i work with all sorts of artists in the musical field . what is your favorite food ?	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
i work with all sorts of artists in the musical field . what is your favorite food ?	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
that is so unfortunate to hear . my favorite is pizza !	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
that sucks , but at least there is a lot of variety with pizza !	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
things are going well . i just flew back from the afp conference .	i am trying to get my ba in finance
the usual pomp and pompous . the key note speaker dragged on about banking regs	yes i did i went for a little , you ?
not too many yale degrees there though , the industry is degrading !	you train me in it and i will help you with your finances ?
manhattan is starting to feel the chill but i am used to it .	i am in new jersey not cold yet .
you just have to have drive and it does not hurt to have rich banker parents .	i am so sorry . banks tend to want their money though .
have you seen my new bmw ? it is a limited edition model . what do you drive ?	i am so sorry . banks tend to want their money though .
oh . so , have you heard that chase is having liquidity focus groups ?	i have a ford mustang , do you go to school ?
trade leaders are feeling the pinch and want disguised bailouts .	does wall street count ? my job is in finance . so , i look at the ticker everyday .
cash is king baby , cash is king !	i have some government bonds , but no stocks .
not if the banks have anything to say about it . they will crush that tin market .	sure . if it sucks though i will turn it off . i am rich .
already in the works my friend . they are infiltrating and will derivative it out of existance .	you will be impressed with how fast i can be . i am very wealthy . the wealthiest .
see you at the next fundraiser , this has been fun .	i am so sorry . banks tend to want their money though .
i am well . and you ?	hello i am good ? do you work
agreed ! still feels like summer . i build homes and welcome coolers temps ,	great , i love this weather , and so do my cats ! lol
yes , i love what i do . what type of work are you in ?	yeah , me to . not building stuff though , ha ha .
i m a cat person myself . five to be exact . also like hunting and fishing .	take care of my five cats ! they are very needy lol . you ?
do you like the outdoors ?	i have three brothers , how many do you have ?
most any type of outdoor activity , attending sporting events , reading , and cooking .	i mainly enjoy the outdoors . what about you ?
a good steak or fresh crab legs . do you like seafood ?	i like tacos and pizza
i do . about 13 miles to the beach .	i live in southern california , right near the ocean .
hi i am a christian man , i can drive tractors	hi how are you doing tonight i am fine thank you .
no my sister used to , helped her become a pole dancer	no , i do not . i keep to myself mostly .
my tractor is red , i listen to classical music on it . i enjoy classic music	the color or the artist ? because she is a god !
how are you this evening ?	i try to drink water mainly .
yeah i am its a fun job	i work with my dad at stifel , a construction company . you ?
hope you have a great night !	actually , i find it fascinating .
yeah , just waiting for it	i know ! let us continue to pray .
yeah , so is the artist pink	i love the color red so much . what do you do for fun ?
pretty good . i am doing some reading of psychology journals . you ?	evening , i am well . yourself ?
nice . used to listen to them while my parents were making me camp out	i also teach high schoolers . are you in high school ?
are you a 90s kid ? me too	yeah , kind of like that ! maybe you can try it out at camp
definitely ! now that i am in grad school i wish for the simpler days	yeah ! i have always wanted to teach and it is what i am best at .
it is pretty exhausting . not as tiring as kayaking though wich i love	yeah ! i have always wanted to teach and it is what i am best at .
yes i can survive off the grid for weeks if needed thanks to mom and dad	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
i can totally help you survive the end of the world	so glad we agree ! what kind of music do you like ?
i think studying psychology helps me understand why my parents act the way they do	yeah , man that is true . so , anything else u need to talk about today ?
just here at my house in michigan with my boyfriend .	i am from california , and yourself ?
i love to go for walks .	yes , i love going on walks and enjoying nature .
no , just me and my boyfriend here .	no , i do not have any pets either .
i make clothes and sell them .	i am a scientist . what about you ?
walking is something i enjoy .	i just write stories , love my dog and do a lot of rock climbing .
probably going to thrift stores .	i like to take walks in nature .
fun toys for my nieces .	i like to buy goods sat the thrift shop on saturdays .
anything fun and cute , lots of vintage stuff .	yup , two little ones . what about you ?
hi ! names betsy and bought our first home	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
i work as a teacher in a school . and also have 2 step kids	ah , you have a child . only one ?
wow that is pretty nice . i recently moved to the us with my husband	so it is a tradition . cool . my dad teaches kids in china .
that is pretty cool do you like it there ?	wow , we did until i moved to the other side of the country .
yeah like new york maybe ?	is your current role in the big city where i live ?
it is more like the suburbs if you know what that is	i do not . i prefer cities to the country .
well i did say i will be popping out triplets in three months from now	yes i have four young kids and you ?
yeah and have 2 step kids too .	i would love to have kids some day . any grandkids yet ?
no but i would love to get one	no i live in a huge house
nice ! when i wear my motorbike helmet i do feel like a super hero sometimes	no i ride for fun only .
i wish i could but i cant . do you have a motorbike ?	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
why did you choose pink out of all colors ?	i could recover the seat color though , in pink
i am a girl too but mine is red with a blue stripe and its super shiny	i like pink , i think blue is too masculine color .
cars are not as much fun as bikes though	i just have three cars . they are all black .
mine is super fast . no peddling required at all . maybe you need to upgrade ?	i do ! i am a big rider , motorbikes as well . do you ride bikes ?
you just have to negotiate harder with them	i would let you borrow mine but it is hard to part with .
hello i am almost 40	i am good i am 25 years old
i teach the kids various instruments	do you play an instrument ?
congrats on that that is cool	my marriage will be at the park and i am sure you will love to attend
oh wow so you will have a big wedding and reception ?	i play it in my freetime . i am an aspiring singer so hoping to become famous
oh yeah that is a fun part of the party , are you going to have drinks too ?	i want to open a homeless shelter
i would definately be getting my dance on	with some wine , yes it would
its going to be a day to remember with lots of pictures too !	yes ! i love to dance to it . i am pretty amazing at it
oh wow that is going to be very memorable	very fitting profession ! do you do family photos ?
hello ! i have two dogs at my house .	why would you like to be a dog ?
i know . once one of my dogs ate a whole batch of chocolate brownies .	no competition then . pets ? i have a dog .
that is good . what do you like to do for fun .	wow ! a dog would be great to join me in my workouts .
that is fun . i like to play with my dogs and go to the gym .	i love to create designs and draw
my dogs names are lady and nina . what would you name a dog ?	labrador retriever named tucker , they are wonderful dogs if you are looking .
those are really nice names . i really like them .	the name of your dog is little ?
yes i love to sing ! i can sing a lot of songs . can you ?	yes ! i love to sing . what genre do you like to sing ?
well that is the most important song because it helps you learn .	i always sing songs very loudly .
really ? who does not like chicken ? even chickens like chicken .	like meat mostly , me and my dogs love them , do you like dogs ?
hmm . . . i thought about nursing after my chemistry degree . . glad i did not	you should explore how to make some in a class .
yep . i peddle books out of a bus now love it	but the cost of school is so high .
hey maybe i have seen you . i dance at billy bobs country line on the weekends	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
are you the one in the orange jumpsuit ? and the ankle bracelet ?	haha yes ! everything is blue pretty much all the way down to my shoes .
ok . weird . oh well . i have to go feed my dog	yes , would love to be that . so you have any pets ?
my dogs name princess pei pei she just won a blue ribbon	i do not have any dogs . you ?
she loves to compete . a real ham . agility classes	i bet she is cute . animals really like me .
i am doing quite well . how are you ? what do you do for work ?	i am doing very well just doing some gardening
i am a tour guide for the metropolitan museum of art . what are you studying ?	i work in a school
i remember middle school . do you enjoy reading ?	i am still in school .
i love to read . i have a library filled with books .	the only reading i do lately is for school .
yes , most of my friends are into horticulture . are you interested in plants ?	i do not have a lot of friends . what about you ?
i love growing roses in my backyard . what are your interests ?	yes , i love plants . do you enjoy planting flowers or vegetables ?
i understand . do you ever drink tea ?	i love gardening . and growing plants in the garden
i love drinking gourmet tea . jasmine is my favorite . what is your favorite ?	green tea goes with everything
i am a tennis player professionally	no , i am a student .
that is pretty cool . excited ?	are you in school presently ?
oh dang are you vegan ?	yes , would love to be that . so you have any pets ?
me too , my wife is a doctor	yes , i do . and thanks ! what do you want to do when you grow up ?
she just presented the case and she is so healthy , so i switched	i hope she says yes .
i go on walks with my dog to stay healthy too . what do you do ?	i wanted to see how it would affect my health , if it would improve at all
wow that is cool , i live in a big house . it is three stories	i love to ride horses .
do you live alone there ?	i have a large family . what about you ?
hi , i am 12 years old and a girl so no cussing please .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
none , i do not care for school at all .	what school ?
i play sports , i am in to soccer .	i like softball , but wish i could play hardball . is it hard to do gymnastics ?
for school , and for pleasure . what else do you like ?	yes i play on our senior team for my high school
what is your new position ?	i play professional soccer . my job is not enjoyable , trust me .
oh , i do not know about that since i am so young .	i work hard and got promoted .
i like dying my hair it is red and i do not like red .	yes . i never got to do much , i had to start work at a young age .
blonde because it looks good with my blue eyes .	i love the color red .
oh no ! i am okay . just taking a break from reading .	hi i am good getting ready to go to a museum
this week a parenting book . what are you up to ?	it s my favorite book ever .
oh my goodness . maybe some self help books will be useful ? confidence booster .	read read read . and you
i had no idea you had internet access from jail . maybe volunteer when you are out ?	i would be happy to help . i enjoy learning new things .
i am a tour guide at a local museum . it helps me meet new people .	you could volunteer your time , it would keep you busy for sure .
i love it . i am partially deaf so it is hard to find normal jobs .	yes , more time for doing things you enjoy . i like reading myself .
i do like the routine . it is comforting . what are you looking for in a new job ?	i have to be i work at the library . i am more into alternative . you ?
i am good just freezing in alaska .	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
oh ok . its been hard lately to do my meditations since its cold .	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
also , that would be in my interest since its been months since i have spoken .	i was also raised as a buddhist .
just a normal ford . nothing fancy .	i do not know how to drive , but maybe one day .
that is nice i bet it looks nice .	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
it is a wonderful place to do meditation .	well no , i just travel a lot . do you ?
a pet cow ? that must be nice and interesting .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i would love to see her do that .	i was also raised as a buddhist .
hey , not here . snowing . i volunteer at a homeless shelter tonight	hows the weather where you are ?
yeah , but i wrestle professionally . and work out a few times a week	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
i like pizza , and i enjoy socializing . being around people	just carb free foods mostly .
if i got spare time i volunteer , do a lot of it .	i have traveled all over the world .
awesome , can not go wrong with that	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
yeah , well i hope all your dreams come true	i can make a lot of great food for you .
my family being safe and unharmed	yeah i do not have those kinds of dreams ! maybe once .
yea it sure is very much so !	i want to open a homeless shelter
why is that . you should try to get along .	i am sorry . that is no fun . you should get a dog !
wow , that is insane . i have two very well behaved children and dogs .	i find that offensive . are you married ?
so you know , i stay away from male clubs . i just watch american sports .	yeah , i do not know what to do with them all . you want one or two ? haha
i have worked for the same company for more than 15 years . not time for much .	ok . i like to listen to music while i work .
not much to tell , i am an average male . tell me about you .	i think so ! i stay busy .
red is not a boring color . my favorite sports team wears red .	i love the color red so much . what do you do for fun ?
well , my kids are usually outside playing with the dogs . what about your family ?	yea , big family and big sports fans .
hi i love to dance , i take lessons every week	hi , i am in the 3rd grade
yes , i work at a community college teaching music	. . . and you work at a piano bar . lol jk
that sounds cool . hopefully a bigger place	lol are ur kids into music ? ? ?
my hair is a rainbow of colors . whats your favorite color ?	good question maybe black i think , ink haha
my favorite is teal . cant choose between blue or green	mine is pink and baby blue
i do as mine are blue also	yes , blue is a lovely color
playing with my favorite toy , my lite brite	i start next week yo
it was my favorite as a child	gl on the next one
wow , that is interesting . i am thirteen	i guess i like veggie burgers .
that is cool . did you know i am on my schools soccer team ?	what is in your garden ?
nice ! i really dislike math classes	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
amazing ! my older brother does too !	ha ha . i to concerts a lot too . what music do you like ?
of course . when i go to school i take the school bus	ha ha . i to concerts a lot too . what music do you like ?
that is better for the environment ! good for you	that is something ! i bike to class as well .
you really do ! it is very important	i am trying to become more aware of my environment .
i am good and you , are you male or female ?	hello , i am fine , and yourself ?
what kind of job do you have ?	i do not think i am .
i had a condition where my heart was placed outside my body	i own a bakery . i love making wedding cakes . you ?
so i can now do things that i could not before like move things with my mind	i was in an accident once
yes it is very interesting especially because i am a young boy	haha that is a good trick to keep in mind
i am lucky to have had a transplant , so i am better now .	well when i am faced with troubles , i pray . works for me
oh yes thank you , it must be nice having dogs .	yes it is hope he gave you what you needed in life
what is wrong with your car ? i am too young to drive .	oh my goodness , do not you have a car ?
oh , you bought a car . thought you had to fix it .	i am upset that my car is not working but i am ok .
that is good . i wish i had someone to play with , boring being alone .	if i drove i would probably wonder that .
no one to take me to the gym or anywhere else .	anyone can do it , you just have to try and keep trying .
8 , and i live in a cloud by myself	i am 18 . how old are you ?
well you could stop time like me before you get dumped .	do you believe you still need to be together ? when did you break up ?
who does not understand ? what type of cars do you love ?	why not ? i live for nice cars to be honest
oh , what kind of cars go fast ? i am too young to know .	i just like cars that are fast
i am doing good you ? just getting ready for tomorrow .	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
not really , i stay at home with the kids , while my wife works . lol	it is going good , yours ?
yes . i worked 10 years in human services , but my wife missed work .	you have kids ! i have one son . i quit after the first one . lol
i live in canada . yeah , she deserved the break . she works with my dad .	i am also here in town . my son gets all as .
more so , i am close to the city . lol . whats your favorite movie ?	i am also here in town . my son gets all as .
more so , i am close to the city . lol . whats your favorite movie ?	yes , i love movies . especially comedy , horror , and fantasy . you ?
saw movies . i love horror movies . do you have kids ?	a horror movie . i am more of a rock person .
oh how nice of you . mine are 2 , 3 , and my oldest son is in middle school .	no , i work too much for kids .
hi i am ready to retire what was your occupation	hi there , good thank you for asking , what do you do for living ?
i am a tennis player what do you do in spare time	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
me to i love long walks with my dog on the beach	i love to play with my dogs !
one of my 3 story homes is in the mountains i like cold	i like to work on the house or the yard
my big family makes mines hurt lol you have kids ?	is it humid at all ?
yes one is in college and twins on the way	yes i do . but no kids of my own yet .
thank you now i can not retire soon like you	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
duties always first do you travel much	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
it is going well how about yourself ?	hi , its going well and you ?
drinking coffee ? what time is it there ?	hi , i am doing ok . i am a banker . how about you ?
oh i see , both of my parents are well off bankers	hmmm . i teach financial business classes . you ?
yes but they forced me to go to yale for finance	i majored in finance to follow in my dads footsteps
i enjoy going for long drives in my bmw	yes mountain bike or motorcycle i just love it
oh no i am sorry not sure how to change that	pink , of course ! do you have a favorite color ?
what kind of things do you like to do ?	i guess . funny . you getting ready to graduate ?
what is your favorite game ? i enjoy video games	i am trying to get my ba in finance
sorry to hear . it is my birthday today !	i am just watching some tv .
no , no . i just turned 100 , believe it or not .	haha , no , probably not her then .
maybe i will just drink wine and dance all night in the moonlight . love it .	everyday is a holiday if i chose it to be . no one chooses when i celebrate .
of course . i feel so strong for my age , i might just live for an eternity !	it sure can lift your spirits .
gotta celebrate ! i am so old , i recall when nobody owned a tv .	yes , that is a great idea ! i will have to do that for sure .
yeah , juvenile detention does wind back the clock .	ll ! i do thankfully . what shows do you watch ?
red wine . it is good for the heart . try a cabernet .	i drink water most of the time .
how interesting ! i like to rock climb , it is my favorite activity .	i am studying to be an engineer .
i work as a mechanical engineer , i love my job	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
i like them , my black lab trooper enjoys their music as well .	yes ! they are my favorite .
nowadays it is rare to see any kids have them over here in colorado	oh wow ! what are your kids favorite music genre ?
what kind of dance is it ?	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
sounds like it is really fun !	it is a dance type workout .
cool ! have you seen them live !	definitely rock ! do you have any kids ?
oh , they must be a great band !	lol ! yes , i can see it !
i live in hollywood . in a very expensive house	i live in california , how about you ?
that is okay i did not either . i just found a boy toy to buy me nice things	where did you attend high school ?
that is very impressive ! what do you do in the army ?	hah yah that makes sense . . but gotta get that money
what an honorable man . connections are all that matter in this world	i have never been in the military , but i buy enough food for a army .
hopefully being in the army is a good diet . i love to diet	as long as i would not gain any weight !
that does not sound fun . if i go 1 week without caviar i would die	that does not sound like a balanced diet
honestly its kinda gross , but it costs a lot which makes me want to buy it	i tend to recommend a high protein diet . it helps that i fish lol
that is why i love him	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
winter is very lonely though	true story , man . and this is our rainy month . though they claim that would be april .
cats are good but unsure if my bees would like	really ? i have two dogs and a cat
great what is your favorite type of hat	we have 4 cats . they are so odd at times .
quite the collector my wife has as many heels	is that a hat ? like a beanie ?
love the games we root for italy	i have a huge stamp collection . would love to learn to fly though .
vanilla is a favorite , real gelato is my weakness	lol . half my family is in italy . we are italian .
i loved tennis in my younger days	i was never in organized sports .
yes gigi and mary joe heck of a game	yes , we won some of the matches . do you like flying ?
i am not familiar with her music , i am only 23 .	yes . i like to eat .
no i do not . i travel a lot and take on odd jobs .	i do i have to do all the cooking
anywhere with delicious food . i am a big foodie , although i am a lousy cook .	i have traveled a little bit . and you ?
i love anything new . i try not to eat the same dish twice .	all kinds . i am a great cook . what is your favorite meal ?
i actually do not paint . do you ?	oh , i mostly draw and paint for fun . i do not expect to go anywhere with it
i do meditate , but not as often as i should . it helps me de stress .	i do . i try to . it keeps my mind active .
no i have not . what is that ?	not sure , but something that involves rational and logical thinking .
not really i tend to walk the road to the nearest shopping mall ! lol	no , i like to keep it to myself
unfortunately for me that means my home is filled with shoes and clothing . you ?	so you are following with the family business ! any hobbies ?
you sound very centered . i like my life , my family doesn t seem to .	totally get that . not much of a shopper . live simply .
i like solitude too . maybe that s why i m infatuated with time and watches .	you sound lonely . it seems like its what you are designed to be .
isn t meditation just like napping ?	yes i guess . time does not exist . meditation helps with that .
i have to talk . i work at a discount watch dealer . time out . heard of them ?	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
we ship anywhere . our motto is tick tick , losing track of time is sick	yes . my family owns one and i work on it .
lol , i must go too . the imelda marcos shoe collection on qvc is on	i think we should hold off on that .
i drive my boyfriends ford raptor .	i do not have a car and i cannot drive
it is a truck . i blast old school rap when i drop him off for work .	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
i do not . i wrecked my mustang , and have not replaced it yet .	all the time in my truck that i know how to drive .
i take dance lessons . what are you going to school for ?	do you have new cars on your lot ?
what was your favorite toy growing up ? mine is the lite brite .	i study , what about you ?
my dad built those . he still has them .	i had to trade in my mustang when my middle child was born .
some of his go back 40 years .	not really , he is too young to buy the stuff . do you have kids ?
i am in just got in from walking my dog . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
will you be walking alone ?	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
that sounds fun . what do you and your husband do ?	yes . i think it will be fun .
wow , that is so interesting . i play pro tennis .	i play music because my job is being a musician .
not really no just have to focus . hard to play being pregnant though .	i love to play it , but that could be because its part of my job too .
thank you this , is my third . nervous about the teen years . is it hard ?	oh good luck to you . my kids of course . where did you grow up ?
oh my , how old are they ?	just tell them they need to do it more than you since they are still growing .
how do you handle them dating ?	i love toddlers . what are their names ?
i am doing great i just got an apartment	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
hmm would you mean live roses in a vase or paint them on the wals ?	what colors will the roses be ?
i wis i could grow stuff but too busy going to college	a nurse , that is real work ! gross .
nope very small studio since i am going to college	yes especially my room . everything in there is purple . it is my favourite !
do work work there or just go to enjoy it . . ?	i would have to agree . do you work or are you school ?
nice you can exercise while you work	it is good pay but not fun to go to every day .
not really i get my exercise working in a bar to pay for school	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
i liked new kids on the block when i was a kid in the 90s !	i like working out and helping animals
i cannot dance at all . but i can wrestle !	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
i , being a professional wrestler , have broken a few bones . . .	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
no , it is all fake . you only get hurt if you are not paying attention .	its just mostly paying attention to what the characters say .
i see , do you take any medication for that ?	that would render you ineffective , lol
wow , so you like avoid certain foods or something ?	sometimes , but i try not to for health reasons .
do you think it is working ?	i tend to recommend a high protein diet . it helps that i fish lol
i volunteer at a shelter . i was homeless once , i want to give back	i volunteer at the local homeless shelter making meals
very well , now that the wife and kiddos are in bed .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
we have three kiddos , so there is never any ice cream in the house .	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
i tried hiding it in the peas , but my wife found it .	aww . i always thought it would be cool to have kids .
its easily done on the way to clients houses , plumbers are always on the go .	haha maybe sneak on to one . are you close with your family ?
we go on the way to the parks too , in the next town .	i love ice cream , there are so many great shops here in town .
i do not . i live in the country , with dogs , kids and chaos .	i live in a city , but not a big one .
that would be amazing . i love horses .	i bet . i was born and raised on a large farm . i really miss it .
i prefer animals over most people too .	right ! and all the amazing animals outside .
hello . i am on a diet , so i am hungry ! !	i am doing great how about yu ?
i do , as well as spending a lot of time in my tanning bed .	if you were rich you would not be saying this .
i have been told i am as high maintenance as britney spears , and we look alike .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
my husband is a cop , i do not work . only spend his money .	i am a professional plumber .
we do not . thankfully , i would not have this body if i did .	no kids as of yet .
i work out three hours a day , i am trying to break into acting .	you mentioned kids . are you married ?
thank you . we live in south florida , so it is stiff competition .	well , that is acting in a sense .
i am well . where are you from ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i am from florida . do you have any family	i am from boston what about you
my wife and i have two children and three dogs	i do not have any dogs . you ?
we do indeed . do you like sports ? i love the nfl and nba	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
what college team is your favorite ? i like north carolina myself	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
coach enfield is a bum !	not much of a sports fan , but i know a bit . who is your favorite team ?
yeah i think he will go down in this latest scandal	haha , my father always said that pro sports are all scripted results
yes we do . mine are usually the best	who does not ! i totally agree
oh , hi you must be buzzing ? my dogs are afraid of bees .	hello , sounds yummy ! i am doing great , you ?
no bees for me , it is a scary way to die . an allergic reaction .	i enjoy a good italian meal from time to time . . . whats your dogs name ?
it is a healthy fruit . i love baked goods it is my heaven .	veggies are good for you . you should try eat more of them . what do you eat ?
sorry to hear that . my mom knitted and passed it on to me .	you do not like to bake ! that is crazy , what else ?
sure , christmas is near so scarfs are in the works for the family .	i m sure she would . if you paid her .
that sounds great , i always dreamed about my creations on the catwalk .	i m sure she would . if you paid her .
there are very unique and one of a kind i will send you pictures .	i am sure it would look nice .
that is cool i do a lot of walking as a kindergarten teacher	in a school ? or privately
do you do a lot of hiking ?	i like to run . how about you swim and i run along the shore ?
oh what is your favorite book ? mine is the hunger games .	yes . i like to eat .
those can be very good for improving oneself .	what is your favorite thing to read ? genre ?
i know what you mean , i am improving singing .	yeah , i read a lot a books about self improvement and determination .
recently i have been singing alot of taylor swift .	it cannot be fun to kayak if you do it alone .
yeah , i feel like she has grown quite a bit as musician .	i always sing songs very loudly .
hey ! i am fine , thanks . just got back from work . how are you ?	hello , i am well . where do you live ?
i should go . i work at burger king , and the food is making me gain weight .	i am doing okay , how old are you ? i am 25 and still live with my parents haha
cool , thanks ! my parents have a treadmill i can use , but i really want to move out .	i bet it would be . do you have alot of friends and family ?
oh nice ! and yes , i do . they are always on my back , though .	yes , i live with my mom and dad . who do you live with ?
i agree . i do not even drink , or do drugs , or anything .	yes . they need to figure something better out for that .
i am a pretty average looking 19 year old .	i am a grey eyed blonde . what do you look like ?
you , too ! i should probably get going , but it was great to talk to you !	yeah , and quite not interested to be honest .
oh , actually , i have a little time .	that s okay but it was fun talking to you !
i am okay , i miss people , but i am not allowed on the computers .	things not going well ?
i am in juvie , they do not permit us on the computers .	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
my mom is visiting in the morning , it is the first time i have seen her .	do not you understand ? i do not care where you work . i will pay you .
17 , i took my boyfriends auto theft charge , he has a record , i do not .	27 . she is 35 . i am sorry to hear that .
i do not type slow , .	it helps me blame the system , instead of myself .
must be . are you having bad weather tonight ?	you do not have to use it .
i do not know then . i was a hacker before i was sentenced to juvie .	not too bad it is gorgeous outside . yourself ?
my dad taught me when i was young .	oh goodness , how long were you in prison ?
hey , i am 8 and a big third grader that loves the playground .	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
my friends and i sing the frozen songs but mickey is my hero . what college ?	i love to watch disney movies , sounds silly , but they are my favorite .
disney world is my favorite place to go with my family .	i also take online classes . what is your favorite disney movie ?
i have a long time before i get to live away from home .	do you have a big family ? there is on , y
a nurse sounds like a great job . i love everything chicken .	i have been eating sweet and sour chicken since then . love it !
i wish it was not raining out so me and my friends could go to the playground .	that is funny ! i have drawn almost all disney characters from the movies
being 8 , my only worry is will the teacher catch the passing of the note .	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
i bet you have a lot to worry about .	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
i am enjoying a burger and fries , you ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
yum ! i love eating in my house with my boyfriend	i like to eat at the house . its cheaper
but i never drink soda , that stuff is terrible for you !	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i have heard soda makes your hair grow fast	yeah that is a good soda ! i really like to shop for soda too !
soda is also great for cleaning toilets ! !	i work out and try to eat healthy .
working out is ok , kinda fun if you like that	that is a great idea ! ! ! yes !
i ride my bike to go get burgers and fries !	riding bikes can be fun too !
that sounds lovely . i work as a waitress from time to time for extra money .	hey , school then work . what about you ?
i love celebrating columbus day !	ll , i mostly enjoy traveling though .
i am not much into cooking . i do ride motorbike though .	i love to cook , so i will be doing a lot of that .
yes , it is a mixture of ingredients kind of thrown in one pan .	haha i say yes . if you really race , you will win .
i do like meat and rice , but i do not go for things like snails or oysters .	what does the dish consist of ?
you are funny ! did you ever ride motorbike ? i love it !	seafood or worms ? lol !
well i do wear a helmet to keep from brain injury !	if i drove i would probably wonder that .
well , i am hoping to keep my head !	have you ever wondered if you could change your eye color ?
terrible , there are scorpions everywhere . please send help .	hello i am good ? do you work
i play banjo in the band i formed with my fellow postal workers .	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
why have you not sent help ? ! the scorpions are stinging my legs ! ree ! ! ! ! ! ! !	i tour with a band , maybe you could do something like that .
dad i am sorry i did not support your nascar dream ! these scorpions are my punishment	i play the guitar ! do you have any pets ?
the pain from these scorpions is unending , everything is turning grey	! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! you are right , that would help ! ! ! !
i see the light , dad . i am coming . i will be in the passenger seat dad	you are a very forgiving person . not sure i could be that forgiving .
oh god why is there fire , why is there fire ? this is not nascar	i have the postal service playing right now .
there are scorpions everywhere ! ! ! seas of scorpions for miles in all directions ! ree ! ! !	no , they are still out there . . . believe !
so did i just came back from it and eating a papaya	i eat a lot and like clothes . ll !
its my fave fruit . i do not have family close by	you should try only veggies and fruit .
names george by the way , and am married to a super model from italy	we grew up together . where are you from ?
no but i became a bee farmer	yes i love the olympics ! ! and gymnastics !
some times but that is why i wear the bee suit t	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
haha most do , which i can understand	yes ! it is so annoying .
sure you can always purchase on my website	yes ! do you sell that ?
we can go for a trade that sounds awesome	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
good . what is your job ?	hi , i am doing really well . you ?
i am retired and used to teach gym in school .	i am an old boring officer lol
i often volunteer at a local soup kitchen .	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
i do not have any pets .	no , i do not have any pets either .
i like cheeseburgers almost as much as you love your dogs !	my pets are two dogs .
i must be bold because i grew up in a poor household .	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
i like the music in the war documentaries that i enjoy watching .	yes , i love music ! what about you ? any favorites ?
do you attend concerts often ?	i love country ! and hip hop .
good . tired . i had to walk my three dogs .	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i do . i have not played it tho .	yes . it is a computer game . do you play games ?
oh very cool . i go on twitch for my pot farm updates .	yep , unlike the video games . haha
no , the game pot farm .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
it is a cool game . i play it daily .	love it . we should play a game sometime .
right on ! i own a dog walking service .	i love to play it , but that could be because its part of my job too .
it is a lot of hard work .	love it . we should play a game sometime .
it is now . it was harder when i first started .	well , my dogs are more than i can handle to be honest .
i am doing well . how are you ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
wow that sounds pretty . do you live with family ?	i am doing well , any fun plans this afternoon ?
cool ! my older sister lives with me right now .	oh yes . what are you studying at school ?
i love travis scott and playing basketball !	i love to eat at exclusive restaurants .
you are correct , he is !	are either of your parents dentists ?
my mom , who is a dentist , hates all of them !	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
what is your dream career ? i am looking for employment at a restaurant .	haha ! just do not let her hear you say that !
wow ! that is a very lofty dream .	what is your dream job ?
i am great today just bought my first house , you ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
happy for you , just making my meals for the meal , it is tough being an omnivore .	i am doing well , now that work is over . how are you ?
i am trying to eat healthy because i am pregnant .	i . . am not sure if you can do that ? do you have any kids ?
i do my best for sure , have twins on the way in two months .	it certainly is ! any kids ? i have two . twins .
both girls ! i can not wait to meet them !	twin boys that are 4 , remember ?
do you do anything else for fun ?	i can relate with that . my life is not very exciting ! ! ! ! !
sounds like quite an exciting life you live .	i enjoy taking care of my children .
i just want to live a happy life with my children .	you must do a lot online .
i survived cancer for 3 years ! ! i am cancer free ! !	hi , i am doing well , how about you
yeah sure ! i run marathons i am preparing one for this summer	that is for sure lol . i do not really have a lot of time to work out
that is awesome i am also a clean eater	what keeps you so busy ? as an athlete i spend my time at the gym .
no i have never tried raw diet before	i heard a raw food diet can cure it , have you heard that ?
no but i have a new job as a life coach	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
my parents are extremely athletic	yes i should that would be good for me .
i started my new job yesterday i really like it so far .	i am trying to make money running marathons .
they are heath coaches	yes , they are . have you ever run a marathon ? i am doing one this weekend .
hi ! pleased to meet you . i am great , just baking cookies at home . my favorite hobby !	hello , i am doing good and you ?
that is so unique ! knitting is another deep passion of mine .	what do you like to write about . i have a dog . rescue dog .
i hope to open a business . like the countrywide bake sale i am now at !	i do like to bake . especially dog treats for my two small dogs .
no , i avoid chocolate in case my dog gets into my treats	not really , but a warm patch of chocolate chip cookies help . tastier things in life .
i named my dog ralph . do you have any pets ?	labrador retriever named tucker , they are wonderful dogs if you are looking .
that is so precious . how long have you had your cat ?	i have a cat named nugget , what are the names of your dogs ?
what a great gift ! i once gave my sister a goldfish .	i had a dog but it passed away . feel incomplete at times .
yeah i live at a farm in colorado as well so i do not see many people .	i am a scientist like my parents . what do you do for a living ?
i work as a mechanical engineer , mostly on farm equipment and trucks .	yes i work a t a local power plant .
i do not listen to much music , i spend my free time rock climbing .	i like a lot of genres , but rock is my favorite .
yeah i drive sometimes to my parents to see my dog called trooper .	no , i drive around my black car , its a lease .
he is a black labrador retriever , saved my life when i was a kid . what animals ?	we have a black lab . do you have any pets ?
his name is trevor , anyway i gotta go soon , it was nice chatting with you !	a german shepherd , but i like all animals .
see you later partner , good luck with your farm !	ha ha ! it was nice chatting with you !
okay , time to part ways now , see ya !	i am sure you will love it ! good luck !
i am good ! i just finished a book ! i read 1 every week	i am great just got back from the movies , u ?
yeah ! and i really enjoy a good documentary	i have still not seen that movie . if i had kids i probably would have
congrats ! i just started my new pa job 3 months ago !	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
that is good though ! i am about to have my first child ! i am pregnant	dream job ! i am unemployed .
nice ! i just have my husband and we live in pa	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
interesting ! good luck with that !	you still have time . i am so hungry . i am trying to diet , but always hungry !
thank you very much you too !	i am sure you will love it ! good luck !
hi . i live in the country , raise horse but i want to move to the big city .	hi what kind of job do you have
i want to move to the big city and be a lawyer .	yeah it is a nice place to raise a family .
i am so sorry to hear that .	aww . i always thought it would be cool to have kids .
maybe you should change your lifestyle . start exercising .	i am sorry . do you have kids ?
is there anything good in your life ?	you should not . or you should try living for yourself instead of for family .
well , that is good . do you enjoy the work ?	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i hope things get better for you . maybe you should spend time with some horses .	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
born and raised on a horse farm . spent my entire life with horses .	i love to ride horses .
i am doing well thank you how are you ?	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
how old are you ? i am in my mid thirties .	hi am doing well . how about yourself ?
are you married ? i m single but i have two dogs .	how old are you ? i am 45
oh no ! that is why i just stay to myself . i do not like cheaters .	i understand her ways , but that is why i am single ! ll
you should learn to play chess . i really like it .	were you drinking when you discovered that ?
how nice ! do you sing ?	i play music when i have spare time .
that sounds interesting . i like to sing .	yes ! i love to sing . what genre do you like to sing ?
hi , i just spray painted my hair rainbow color , am i weird ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
yeah , do you like animals ? i am know to be a animal activist	i am an animal activist . do you have any animals ?
let me guess , your grandfather was in ww2 ?	oh i have animal do you have cats i like cats .
he was in ww2 , how old are you ?	he was 17 but he did great that is what makes him a great dad
cool , i am too old for me to even say , what kind of car did you get ?	hmmm . old ? is 34 old ?
cool , i spend most of my time watching birds with my cats	but was it a toyota truck ?
they are black and orange	blue and red are mine . its hard to pick one lol
cool , tell me something interesting about yourself	i really love violet , what is your favorite animal ?
how are you doing today	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i am doing very well	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
yes and have two animals	i am not in a relationship currently , no .
they are cats . they do not like being outside	i do like dogs but i have 6 cats and no dogs .
that would be so bad	haha you dress your dogs up ?
well at least something fits	i like the pants you guys have to wear . do you have any pets ?
the olympic training and suh	i am a freelance artist .
yeah it is sometimes . yours sounds more difficult	i am a professional gamer
haha nice to meet you larry . what kind of food ?	i like to cook do you ?
oh that is cool . i only eat organic kinds of food	oh . i eat about anything .
haha awesome . i use the internet a lot . especially twitter	i love working online ! it gives me time to travel
oh man its awesome . i am always up to date with gossip	you must do a lot online .
well i am a bit of a feminist . and us women are about to raise hell	i think there are . blogger ? lol
its def trump . he is a racist anti women anti god anti dogs , he hates rabbits	this is how trump makes money ?
yea us women are gonna go on twitter and tell everyone how racist he is	maybe he will make it stop ! lol
maybe you should . i need a organic chicken salad so bad	this is how trump makes money ?
i love listening to the who .	i like to do it mostly outside tho , love it .
do you work a lot ? i work at a local supermarket here in ohio .	i just like going there . i do not have one particular reason .
are you able to travel ? i ve never let ohio .	do you own a dog or cat ?
yes . i want to go to chicago for black olive pizza . my fave .	i would love to visit there . never really traveled , guess we wo not now .
my kitty spook . do you like cats ?	i like in n out . that is my favorite .
what kind of hat do you wear ?	dogs have way more meaning then a skateboard .
eh , not so much i guess .	yes ! i love to shop for shoes . i wear a size 6 .
yes i do . khaki pants and blue polo shirts . boring , but it s a job .	i do not , unfortunately . i work so much and i have so many hobbies .
i am still learning to read english . i am somali .	hello , and yes i would love that .
i do like dancing . do you have any books on dance ?	i think you just need a vacation . .
why were you in spain ? i was in somalia until my aunt help me escape .	oh wow . would you teach in spain too ?
spain sounds lovely ! in somalia i was being forced to marry someone i hated . . . .	i have been to spain its beautiful
do not get me wrong , not all of somalia is bad , just . . . restricted . . . for women .	all those poor lovers lost int he storm , how tragic !
it all depends . some of us are lucky and it is why i live in the us now .	yes , it requires an upper level of comprehension , i suppose .
so funny ! i only found it a few years ago and it opened my world .	i bet that will help lots of people in the world .
hi mine is going very slow how is yours ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
having three dogs keeps me busying cleaning my house .	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
it is a great work out .	yes that is a good way to stay busy .
i am a homemaker you ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i thought i would always be a door to door salesperson as my father was .	i am a professional body builder .
yes i do one of the reason i am in a poly amorous relationship	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
i love hiking or being in the outdoors how about you ?	part time doing odds and ends . are you married ?
i love to volunteer as well .	i mainly enjoy the outdoors . what about you ?
hello , i am living mine as a life coach !	rise against and other bands . you ?
the custodian at the hospital where i did chemotherapy was very nice .	what kind of music you play ?
not unless it is sports related .	thank you , both my parents are doctors . yes i do
i prefer metal . i do love rap too .	tradition of the household . favorite music genre ?
fruits and some vegetables , anything that is clean .	i eat pretty much everything , what about you ?
i do . i am a runner , i do all of the run disney races .	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
they are . i like to dress up in costume while running .	haha i say yes . if you really race , you will win .
man i am starving ! can i tell you something embarrassing ?	hi i am good i was just playing video games
ok . the backseat of my pinto was filled with donuts . i ate them all waiting in traffic	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
then i ate another 3 dozen while playing dungeons and dragons	yes ! do you sell that ?
wait you own a house in miami ? that is insane ! expensive dude . hang on . i see a donut	what is there favorite game ?
what the heck ? this donut is as hard as a rock . dang it . a bulldog huh	dogs are cool . do you have one and if so what breed ?
i just licked the sugar off and threw it out the window you work in what ?	i have not worked in ages . what about you ?
what the heck do you work in ? i found a soft donut ! my lucky day	i have not worked in ages . what about you ?
i am in an insane band and do side hustles	i run a computer programming site
awesome me too ! what do you teach ? i teach piano .	i am studying english . do you play an instrument ?
i like the outdoors also , especially exploring new places that i have not seen before .	a great way to help study is by listening to music . it really helps me !
that is good ! i do not attend church but i help out at the homeless shelter .	do you ever volunteer in your area ?
that is nice ! i wish i had time ! what do you do for fun ?	i am just the pianist at my local church for right now , i enjoy it .
awesome ! i practice my instruments , i play a few . i guess i took after my dad .	i enjoy playing the violin . do you have a favorite color ?
whats that ? violin , my dad was a professional . i guess that is why i love it .	i play violin in high school . i want to teach music class one day
oh ! sorta like a venus fly trap ? those are neat .	you have to love the instrument to become good at it , do you agree ?
i defiantly will ! its been nice talking to you tonight !	ha . that is one way to look at it . do you have any pets ?
hi i am doing great how are you today	hello ! i am good and you ?
where do you work ? i do not work anymore i just stream on twitch	good anyways how are you tonight ?
that sounds like a good job . i used to design a videogame	that is why i am a gamer .
are you still in school ? i was an engineering major	what ? how would that be ? like video games .
that is very smart to do . after i finished school i started avoiding people	when i graduate i want to be an engineer
you will figure out what you want to do soon enough .	i go to clear my mind after losing my parents . what school do you attend ?
i am building a robot clone of myself so i do not have to go anywhere	you have to get a free mind that allows you cope up with any thing .
yeah i am very talented when it comes to technology i am even famous	yeah ! i have been trying to create a startup for a new game
doing just fine . just pulled some cookies out of the oven . smells heavenly .	i am well just took some cookies out of the oven
oh man . i bet my dogs would love going hiking . just not my thing though .	i also bake , maybe some salmon or yellowtail .
i have a german shepherd named king and an english bulldog named major .	you know the dog . . . . i wo not say the name . . .
i actually a professional baker . what about you ?	i do not work . i just bake and take care of my kids . . . you ?
i like being a baker . but i much prefer the county bake sale . love the competition .	that an important job , i love to cook and bake . do you have any hobbies ?
i have always wanted to visit colorado . is it as beautiful as it is on tv ?	i would like to try rock climbing .
i live in central virginia . lived here all my life . it is beautiful . but normal for me .	i am in colorado . it is a bit chilly outside
my wife , my dogs and my baking are the loves of my life .	i make wedding cakes and other pastries .
i just reached the age of majority , i can vote !	hi , doing well and you ?
every kind . what about you ?	i like different genres . how about you ?
my favorite gospel singer is elvis presley . he looks like my pet fish	i only listen to it .
that must hurt . how old are you ?	what ? no way ! that is wild , yet awesome !
a red tractor ? i love red tractors	your young . i am about to go on hike .
i just turned 18 . we should get married and drive a red tractor	i love the color orange and red
so am i . but we could go hiking and look at the sunset	okay , i would love to marry you , too .
lol i wish your tractor was orange . then it would match my wig	the sunsets were beautiful , the sky and the water would just glow this perfect shade of orange
yes i do . where are you from ?	hello , no i am in california .
that is very interesting . what do you do for fun ?	i m from the eastern part of the usa .
that is great . what games do you play ?	well i like to play video games .
i have lived in the persian gulf but i am from west virginia . what about yourself ?	i do all the time , no i have not been . maybe one day . are you religious ?
i am glad you are safe . are you happy where you are now ?	i was also raised as a buddhist .
i wish you could have have a choice in marriage . are you sure you are happy ?	i was also raised as a buddhist .
i am glad you are living a better life . what kind of music do you listen too ?	absolutely . i really hope your situation gets better financially .
sounds yummy , i am feeding horses , my lunch is later	hello , sounds yummy ! i am doing great , you ?
i have three horses , how many children do you have ?	have you ever ridden a horse ? i am all about them .
not yet , just got married and pretty busy on the farm	i have two that help me on the farm , i do not have children yet .
wow , complicated field that is changing everyday	that is so awesome , i am not financially ready yet .
me too , lucky to be on the farm , do you find your health improved ?	i know it is hard . it is in everything . but a balanced diet in important .
great band ! i always have some rock playing while i work	what kind of music would you create ? i love the rolling stones .
not during harvest , my father needs full time help , you ?	i ride horses and and breed cattle
that is great , building a family takes time , good luck	i am a full time student unless riding horses count
hey ! german shepherd ? i am feeling pretty crappy right now .	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
my wife spends so much money on those coloring books	well maybe you can get a job working at home like me and buy a new one .
how long have you been married ? my wife and i are separating soon .	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
i wish i lived in the boondocks but i have to stay close to my crappy job .	have yet to find the man . just got divorced actually .
that sounds better than what i do selling cars .	do you think you will be a farmer for life ?
do you have kids too ?	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
we have 2 kids too and they like to spend all my money	no i do not want any children . do you have a favorite color ?
we have a parrot who can be quite obnoxious .	i do have 2 kids . what do you like doing ?
hello . that sounds fun , except i would move to the beach .	i think you just need a vacation . .
do you play board games ? they are mine and my kids favorites .	there are a cool band .
skydiving is fun . i also like to go to up concerts , they are my favorite .	yes i love to roller skate and i like the music they play .
mainly documentaries . i am a fan of the walking dead .	i like to spend the time in concerts . whats the kids fav . color in school ?
hummus is great . i like the red pepper .	i have never watched that one .
i am a vegetarian , so i eat a lot of hummus as well .	i make a very good vegan quesadilla .
my parents were culinary teachers , they taught me to cook .	what would you say your favorite band is ?
hello . tell me something about yourself .	i am in the navy .
that sounds like a the easiest money every	i am actually in the navy . what do you do for a living ?
that must be the worst	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
so i am but i am not	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
do you donate to charity ?	yeah work is lame . i do not like needing money
college is a scam ya	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
save your money , trust me	yes , but it does not pay very well .
what did you need the money for ?	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
hi there ! one of my sons loves to skateboard !	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
it is popular . i enjoy baseball , i coach one of my sons little league team	lol ! ! do you have kids ? i have five
me too . hats are the best . hey , do you like to drink coffee ?	well i watch it with you if you got that coffee made i bring the liquor
oh no . how did you break your arm ? ! ?	no there is much , much more . like beer and coffee for example
bummer . can you still skateboard with a broken arm ?	yes this broken leg is agitating !
my son hurt his wrist once skateboarding . comes with the territory i suppose .	yes this broken leg is agitating !
well i am off to relax with my evening glass of wine . cheers .	i know . it hurts my performance as a baseball player .
you as well . love you too .	i make coffee and brew beer .
congratulations ! i am still at home with my parents in texas	i am a student from cali
nope ! i have not even graduated high school yet	no pets . do you guys have many parks in texas ?
no but i do love to ride horses	yes ! i am now a coach at the school ! what do you do ?
aw that is so wonderful ! congrats ! sorry you are broke though	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
haha i would not suggest it !	risky business all the time !
get famous ? i do not know	welfare ! , i will be paying for you . getting my degree , that is whats schools for !
lol no ! i have strong ethics . i am even a vegan	maybe i should invest in one then !
i just love animals too much and factory farming is horrible	exactly . haha i should look into that
dude , like how are you , like totally ?	hello , just fine what about you ?
i am not so good , was with my buds and cracked up the elbow , totally	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
my hat flew off while i was skateboarding and i lost it , i do not work	yes i work from home
it hurts and this cast smells like a dead monkey butt , seriously , what color hair ?	what color would you dye it ?
boarding and friends is my life , even though they laughed when i fell , no games	yea i do . as much as role playing
blondes have more fun , but only if they skateboard , who is dracula ?	yep , unlike the video games . haha
wow creepy gray haired factory person , like in lost boys ?	he is hella creepy , he even drained the blood and drank that
hi bob , i am mandi	hi . do you have any hobbies ?
me too now that i have been fired and got a new job .	hey , that is life . what about you , what do you do ?
to each their own , but i believe he is .	well he divorced my mom , so i do not know him well .
i lost my mom at a young age	i heard you . 2 of mine passed but 3 still with us . someday we will join them .
sorry to hear that . i barely see my dad he is in the army	well you are kind to take care of her . my parents unfortunately passed away .
i do , good thing too because i am now selling insurance to companies	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
sure ! i am trying to lose weight too	i own my own company so i will have to find the right time to travel
that is interesting it must be rewarding	my wife went to be a nurse . that is good .
i am 22 , i live in the us now , you	i am from the great us of a
you could get a car when you turn 16	i would travel the world if i could but cant afford it
well , you will be old enough soon	if i drove i would probably wonder that .
that is nice to hear , when i was your age i was married	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
no i am from somalia	no but my grandfather raises wagyu
no only my aunt in america	yes , i have a brother and a sister . what about you ?
that is nice do you go on vacations	i have never been out of the states i have two older brothers
education is important , make sure you get good grades	yeah we vacation every summer
i am well , glad to type to you . how are you ?	i am good . just got done teaching a yoga class .
that is good . i am a spiritual person , are you ?	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
that is nice , i spend most days in reflection here .	i was also raised as a buddhist .
i believe so , the buddha has taught me well .	we harm ourselves , that is the buddhist theory . it will get better
i do not speak , i took a vow of silence .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
it has been three months now . i love it .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
thank you . i am on a quest to be spiritually strong .	i am buddhist also . fun fact .
i sit in lotus position and chant for hours . are you spiritual ?	just being aware of the moment is a kind of meditation . helps calm the spirit .
i prefer italian . especially garlic bread .	i eat very healthy and in large amounts at a time so anything with protein
that is interesting . what kind of sports do you play ? i like gymnastics .	yes . it is a good way to put on muscle . do you ?
most likely . yes , what is your favorite color ?	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
i won a gold metal in the olympics as a gymnast .	there are different forms of the game .
i really like the color yellow because it reminds me of flowers .	i love blue , it reminds me of the sky . what is your favorite color ?
how often do you go to the gym ? i go four hours a day .	i like whatever color you are .
that is cool . do you compete in any sporting events ?	yea , i try to go to the gym 4 to 5 times a week
i do not like to play video games . going outside is awesome .	no , i am not really in to games .
i am here how are you ?	no , it is just myself and my dog .
i am good i am watching mean girls i love this movie	yes , i am fine , and you ?
awe i have a pug and a cat !	you have any pets ? i have a small dog and a bigger cat .
right ? i party a lot cause i am single and bored what do you do for fun	very true ! i have 2 dogs and a mean cat .
nice ! i do a lot of charity work like food banks do you ?	i drink water most of the time .
any fears ? i am terrified of heights	yes i do not eat or support anything that is harmful to animals
oh no ! i try to just live life and party right now !	well i guess it is my own fears of not doing so .
that sounds like fun ! i went out to dance over the weekend .	really ? i need to go back to that , have any pets ?
what a nice gesture . i take my dog to compete in agility classes .	that is right you said that ! i bet you cook very well .
do you ever dress them up ? i am not fashionable .	oh funny ! i have a dog and a cat .
i like forest gump , but i prefer books . i work at a bookstore .	i love movies . what is the movie called ? i will look it up
i studied chemistry in school , and yes girls were mean .	haha . that is funny . wish you were in my classes .
no , but i did wear orange for bullying , but i hate that color .	i am not in school . i did not like school i was teased often .
me too . i am not fashionable , but i avoid orange .	blue is my favorite , what are you studying ?
hi . i am good . how are you ? tell me about yourself .	i am doing well just finished eating supper . yourself ?
oh wow . thanks for serving . i am what you call a trust fund baby .	do any of those affairs involve saving animals ?
i find that most charities are farce . i like to give directly	yes , and it takes a lot of money to feed them ? do you have pets ?
i love to spend and give , but i love to spend wisely .	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
so do you have any musical preferences ? favorite artist , etc	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
i am into pop . moreso old school . do not laugh but i love britney spears .	i like r b and pop , you
i know she has this valley girl thing going on , but she can really sing	who is your favorite artist ?
fish and chips are my weakness .	i like all desserts . do you have a favorite dessert ?
anything that is a documentary of christopher columbus , he is a relative .	i watch foreign tv and movies and enjoy the cultures . wondered if you had traveled .
of course . it is no secret in my family , especially among my european relatives .	no , tell me about it .
i used to cook paella for a kitchen in spain .	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
it is a fish and seafood stew .	i am not sure what it is but i have heard about it once this year actually .
yes , i do . i painted a shrimp portrait for art school last year .	shrimp , barbeque sauce , yes , love it , that is for dipping !
very well . it sold for a lot of money for charity .	was it high school or college graduation ?
not very , i travel a lot and go to school full time .	yes , yes you are . not all are as fortunate .
i am doing great . i have been shocked	doing well , thank you . living on a farm now .
i work with electricity at work	haha . not in a bad way .
what do you want to do	do you think you will be a farmer for life ?
i raise cattle and work	you just stay on the farm ?
in mississippi with my folks	cattle stations run different there than cattle farms in the us do .
well both i guess do you like animals	yea , i live on a farm , so i have a few farm animals
what is your dog like	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
bessie likes to do that too	he is a golden retriever , he is my best friend
i am just listening to classical music	hi not much i just got home from work
what is your dog breed	i love having a dog
no i do not have any pets	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
i am sure they are	my pets are two dogs .
i like to bike and read	i like to bake how about you ?
no i do not like the outdoor that much	i love to read . what about you ?
i do bike outdoor	i like the outdoors . what work do you do ?
that is cool . i am grilling out today with i love to do .	i eat alot of pizza cuz its easy
great idea , then we can go gambling which i always do when i have time .	that would be fun .
heck why not ? plus i need to cut the grass which i love .	i think so . he is a very nice dog .
that is funny . i am soo glad i came down south for the winter .	well , hot damn ! that sounds like a good time . do you play ?
down south where i have been retired for many years now .	i am from illinois , how about you ?
maybe it will be possible if i will the big one gambling !	is that your preferred brand of automobiles ?
that would be my pleasure !	i might be profitable . i say we try .
i would absolutely love that i need the company !	i so agree ! with retirement you will get to do so much !
i am good . i am practicing the hula .	hi , doing well and you ?
it is a dance , traditional hawaiian dance .	i do not know any thing about that one !
i am taking a trip there next month .	i want to teach music , is that a video game ?
two weeks , i am excited . i love the beach .	i try to go at least once a month .
where are you from ? not knowing the hula and all .	i have always wanted to go to hawaii .
i have always lived in the us . kind of boring story .	i have lived in many states . how about you ?
charleston south carolina . i have lived here my entire life .	i am in ohio . do you live in the city ? i have never really been to the city . . .
just eating , something i do when i am bored . what is up with you ?	i am fine , feeling good , just finish working out
i will probably end up going to the gym . have any animals ?	i like going to the gym .
in between jobs right now so you can find me on the treadmill or rowing machine .	my pets are two dogs .
what classes are you taking ? using the time off to hang out with my two dogs .	i need to start working out .
that is cool . i have never been that creative for something like that ,	i also should have finished my degree by now , but it is taking a while .
europe is actually where i decided to get short hair . very chic over there .	hmmm tell me something interesting about you ! do you travel ?
yes but it was very hard to keep up with . chopped it all off . what about you ?	yes , blond hair and blue eyes .
hello ! i am doing great thanks ! just finished some studying .	hello , i am doing good and you ?
i am studying art in college ,	i graduated college a year ago . how about you ?
i am actually a painter , but i am hoping to be an art teacher .	yes , i am .
i enjoy cooking , especially paella , and i like to travel .	i love to paint , draw , anything artsy really . what do you like to cook ?
mostly to europe . i go twice per year . christopher columbus is actually a distant relative .	a little , in europe . never been to japan .
through one of those ancestry websites and stories passed down by my grandfather .	actually , i find it fascinating .
sometimes we forget famous people are the same as you and i . do you have any hobbies ?	i cannot relate . what is something interesting i do not know about you ?
well , that is a great way to stay healthy . awesome for you !	i enjoy crafting and painting .
hi , do you like taylor swift she is my favorite , what do you listen to ?	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
sure , i can talk to you . how old are you ? i am 24 .	i only listen to it .
yes zane is good too , in spring i will get married just to let you know	lol that is true . what do you teach ?
ha ha , that is so funny , do you eat out with friends ? i do .	for sure . are you married ?
sure , your parents will have to take you here , i am also a teacher in kindergarten	that sounds yummy . yes , and mom is my teacher at school
that is a strange thing to say	true i want to teach kindergarten when done with this education program . you ?
well , you do not necessary have to	that is true . are you married ? i am not .
you can learn to say something nice and smart	personal question are you married ?
hey , i am good thanks and you ?	i am good just watching a movie
wow that is a long session !	good how are you doing ? are you in school
i am a stay at home father	i am too busy , you know that . my kid .
oh nice , i love italian foo	ll and what is your fav thing to eat ? i like everything italian .
pasta , my son loves pizza though !	garlic bread is definitely the best .
do you have a favorite genre of movies ?	yum ! my dad used to make that .
oh fair enough , i love horror movies	yes , i love movies . especially comedy , horror , and fantasy . you ?
i am singing songs from frozen my favorite movie .	good ! just listening to some music . you ?
8 in third grade . i like to play on the playground with my friends . you ?	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
awesome ! have you ever been to disney world ? i go every year .	it s my first year . i really like to watch disney princess movies
you have to meet mickey mouse he is my favorite . do you have kids ?	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
what games do you play ?	yes ! they are my favorite .
i like sorry and monopoly . do you have pets ?	some games are fun depending on who your are playing with
yes i have a dog too . i live in ohio , where do you live ?	yes , i have one dog , you ?
a german shepherd , what about you ?	labrador retriever named tucker , they are wonderful dogs if you are looking .
i can see how that would bother you .	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
i have been working in construction since i have been 16 .	i guess parents sometimes think they do the right thing .
none for me watching nascar racing and ufc on tv is my passion	yes i do . but no kids of my own yet .
cool . talking about fav things , i love mexican food .	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
lol , yes that is mexican food . what do you do in your spare time ?	i love mexican food . what else do you like ?
you just might do that . i love to watch television .	i play music when i have spare time .
nice . do you work during the week ? i only work on weekends now .	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
oh ok . so after custodial work , you will be a folk musician ?	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
i work at a convenience store if you want gas station food .	no , i work too much for kids .
that sounds fun . i love gardening and eating fresh produce	hobbies are always a good idea .
do you have any phobias . i am deathly afraid of clowns ?	i like to cook and garden .
that is a good fear to have . keeps you from killing someone	i prepare food . i would like think i am very good at it and people like my dishes
i would totally go on a blind date with you on your yacht .	well you will learn differently as you grow older .
you sound more interesting that the people my dad tries to get me with	really ? you should let me set up their travel plans . that is what i do .
i will , but he probably would have a heart attack due to his age .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
i am 20 and he is 70 . i was adopted when i was 5 . he is old	25 ! he left the force when i was pretty young through . you ?
wow ? really ? i do not think it will work . . .	i am looking for a job . . . was hoping you could help me out .
take it over with what ? love ? kindness ? or war ?	lol , i am not sure , but it sure is good . the best in the whole world .
that is not true , i like you .	well its not that i do not want to . i have just never really had a reason .
visit ? they are probably just busy .	i do not have kids so i do not know , sorry .
looking for a job , like in a cafe or something .	i play basketball video games .
i would love to work at a restaurant !	i do not currently have a job . i am looking though .
ya , tips are what i am really into .	that would be a very exiting and interesting job !
my older sister has made 300 dollars a night in tips .	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
hi , i am only 12 years old , so please no foul language !	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i am doing good , but lonely , how about you ? are you in school ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
yummy , i wish i had friends to eat pizza with !	i go to high school , but i make some money at a local pizza place . you ?
all kinds , i do not like school , but like music class .	i like all types of music .
that is cool ! i am unpopular at school , wish i was friends with rappers !	cool ! i love rap music .
i am a blue eyed long haired red head , you would think they liked me !	high school is not for everyone . get that . what do you do now ?
how old are you ? i am 12 !	i am sure that you look better than you think !
good for you , you must be smart and work hard !	how old are you ! i graduated high school not too long ago .
hi i am doing good . just relaxing with my pets . you ?	i am good just watching a movie
wow you must have been amazing ! all i did was party ! ! still do ! !	i have been to a few high school games
people still call me a party animal ! what other movies do you like to watch ?	do you own a dog or cat ?
i think the best movie is mean girls . i watch it over and over !	i like romantic comedies or action movies .
i would choose anything over heights ! i am so scared of them !	yes , i totally agree ! great movie !
i would write about my dog and cat ! what about you ?	i love to write it is one of my hobbies
what do you do for work ?	you wonder if animal , like me ? s are content with their lives
sounds like an interesting job	i work for a healthcare megaborg . what about you ?
yes , we shall ! what are you up to ?	great well , gotta run , take care
i am listening to britney spears . i love her ! i am sorry to hear that .	oh no , a recent break up ?
i demand a lot , high maintenance , so you do not want to date me !	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
i spend money like it grows on trees ! then there is the tanning beds , diets , etc .	i would say orange . i like blue as well .
orange is pretty . mine are red and purple . happy belated birthday !	i see ! must make a lot of money for yourself !
wow ! that is a wide variety of colors !	oooh pink is a good color , blue is too !
do not you mean the sunrise ? i like to walk . helps with my dieting .	hell . i enjoy sunsets too .
pizza , cake , cookies , ice cream , chips . but then i need to diet , a lot !	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
yes . my name is larry and i am a chef . do you like cooking ?	yes , i enjoy reading novels and poetry books
not really into coffee . i love cooking but also enjoy fishing . do you like fishing ?	yes . i like to eat .
somewhat . i love comic books though . do you have a favorite super hero ?	yes but i do some of it as well .
well spiderman has always been my favorite . did you enjoy playing football ?	never played myself but yes a big fan . you have a hobby ?
his mysteriousness . do you enjoy being outdoors ?	never played myself but yes a big fan . you have a hobby ?
absolutely . i can either be found cooking or fishing .	i would love to travel as well .
yes has to be quiet for the fish to bite .	it can be . not much to write about though .
i am great and just resting before i start my second job as a stunt double .	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
what do you have planned for dinner ? kosher is the only way i eat .	wow sounds pretty busy to me . any hobbies ?
is she a single parent ? that is the type of household i was raised in .	do you have a sister or a brother ?
that is good . do you read books ? i read about twenty in a year .	i bet she does . are you a professional at it ?
are you very active ? i try not to be since i have never broken bones .	i like classical music , so the opera is best of two worlds stories and music .
awesome . i only do walking and light free weights .	i work out and try to eat healthy .
that is convenient and a great way to keep yourself healthy .	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
i live in charlotte , north carolina .	i am in michigan . you ?
i work at the bank of america . i like the work .	i work at the bank .
oh cool . do you have any kids at home ?	i do not know of any jobs . what is your specialty ?
so you are engaged to be married ?	no kids yet . but yes , i would love to have some someday .
sweet . is it going to be a big marriage ?	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
weeding ? haha . no , i meant wedding . how many people will be there ?	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
cool . where are you going to get married ?	yeah , i do not know what to do with them all . you want one or two ? haha
very cool . hope you have good food there .	canada of course . . . . going to be married in central park
hi , tracy here , my children and i leaving for out house in florida .	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
vacation ! today is football sunday . my dog name is snowbird .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
great ! it work wears me out . thank god for my chidren and my dog .	well it is a job , just like you have a job .
wow . all work and no travel huh ? you like sports ? i do .	i do not speak that . not sure i will learn .
i see . can i help with it ? what is your name ? you like dogs and children ?	i have a couple of kids so it is hard to travel . where do you work ?
oh okay . how many kids . ever been to florida . our second house is in florida .	dogs can be a bit needy , though , unlike cats .
sorry ! i have been in it 15 years . what about you ? grace is our cat .	i do not want to ruin our work relationship .
that is great . i sing and i love baseball , football and soccer . you need singers ?	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
so if you are not a chef what is the show about ?	i am a short order cook . . . . just to pay the bills .
that is an interesting name . i sell insurance for a living . boring .	i am a cook , love food , you ?
i am vegan and people love my vegan cooking .	i am 26 and she is 22 . only one i got but she cant cook .
that is nice , i have never been on a yacht before .	i have a chef cook for me . i pay him a lot .
yeah , that would be awesome . but i would buy something more practical .	that is a good plan , i sell car insurance
haha , it is definitely attention grabbing !	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
i really like thai food	nothing specific . i love all food .
have you ever had any egyptian food ?	ah , i prefer asian cuisine , especially thai food .
i am sorry , i cannot help you there .	hello , i am in the middle of painting some islands i have visited .
no . i work in a shipyard .	i am a photographer . how about you ?
that is cool , you must like kids .	that must be a lot of work , but rewarding .
how exciting ! i do not have time for a boyfriend , between my full time job and volunteering .	very fitting profession ! do you do family photos ?
that is nice . how long have you been together ?	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
what do you do in your free time ?	we were together for nearly 3 years .
my favorite color is navy	i also kinda paint when i have free time .
it is . in my free time , i rescue bunnies	i like the color purple . do you have any aspirations ?
i have been fired and had to get a new job in the insurance business .	i work as a secretary for an insurance company
but you socialize at the gym ? i play softball , i love it .	i am sorry . you married or single ?
yes i do . my dad is in the army .	no ? why not , do you fight ?
my mom would be disappointed if we fought , she passed away when i was young .	my father was a carsalesman . i turned out to be a very happy person .
perhaps you would like to purchase some life insurance ?	i would rather watch television .
then can i interest you in 27 car insurance policies ?	i guess you are right considering the pay per hit .
that is okay , i understand bro .	yes , but it does not pay very well .
oh , sorry to hear . i am a medical doctor , if you need any help .	i am a waitress currently . you ?
oh dear . i am sort of looking for a new job now , though .	oh no . but does that help ?
no . maybe as a park ranger . i love going to parks .	i love red too , but not as much as blue . what is your job ?
sorry to hear . you do have lots of health problems .	where do you work ? i am in the lime light all of the time .
good . you have kids ? i have a daughter . she is a music prodigy .	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
so sorry to hear . what do you do for fun , then ?	are your kids interested in music ?
that must be such a fulfilling job !	i work as a children doctor .
hi , doing well and yourself ?	hello i am good ? do you work
have you tried filling the tub ?	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
i have terrible allergies . makes tending in the field trouble	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
i prefer horses over people ! i love to ride , do you ?	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
i grew up on my fathers farm , always around them	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
what sort of music do you enjoy	you must live in a larger city . where do you live ?
do not really listen to rap . i prefer rock especially if working	tupac is my favorite . he was taken too soon .
both of those are great groups	i listen to rock as well . where do you live ?
i am not a parent but i have a german shepherd . his name is barnaby	yes , i have three dogs . they are my babies .
well i will take your word for it . do you have a job ?	i bet , but my two dogs may have a different opinion lol .
that sounds like a nice job . i work for the united states postal service	i do not . and yes it is . my other is hobby is my job . love it .
tell her i say thanks ! are you a fan of any professional sports ?	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
you are a dedicated parent ! i like nascar because my dad was a racecar driver	no . kiddos are into sports . soccer mom here . how about you ?
i am sure that they will . how old are they ?	i think the chocolate chip cookie is the best thing to cook . who is your racer ?
okay well then i will be sure not to ask . where do you all live ?	i have six . ages 4 15 . how old are yours
nice . i live in arizona which sucks because there are scorpions here	we live in pennsylvania . where do you live ?
i am 4 . i have trouble talking to people .	the name of your dog is little ?
i do not know little league . i want to be a dog .	i make great chocolate cakes . i could make you one for dessert ?
i like to eat chocolate too . do you like chocolate ?	do you like dogs ? i have a dog name wonton .
my mom will not let me , she said i am too little .	no , i do not like to drive .
when i look at my blocks i like to sing about the letters .	you play ball in high school ?
i do not play yet , but my mom said when i get older maybe .	yes , i do . i have a dog . what about you ?
do they like to sing about letters too ?	oh , i did not know there were songs in that game .
i like talking to people , but they sometimes do not understand me	i have seen them in chocolate and in hard candy .
hello ! how has your day been ?	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
i am a big fan of rollercoasters and sky diving	hi its going well how is yours going ?
i actually love hummus because i am a vegan	l like what ? i learned a lot in the military
i just moved to the states from germany	i only cook beans because i like how they smell
i love watching cooking shows in my free time	yea its awesome over there . way different than the states
i hope you like football because i am watching it	i like to think of myself as a chef . i cook many cuisines
i think the browns are not very good	the football team ?
ha . i am a new york giants fan . they are not good	i agree . i do not like football much either .
hi from canada , good . i do , like my army chaplain .	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i do not . but yes there are tractors here . ethnic food too .	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
a favorite of mine is shawarma . what is that like ?	what do you study ? i already graduated .
really ? how so ? what makes you think that ?	its not that i like it , it is necessary .
really ? i should ask the chaplain ?	i think it is self explanatory paul .
i am not so sure about that . maybe the men are , but not her ?	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
sure . maybe you can pray for me too .	i know ! let us continue to pray .
thanks . us army guys can sure use that .	you should probably not . it is not good for the world .
that is amazing i work at bk part time	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
i do not drink because of my parents	do you still live with your parents ? i never saw mine .
they are strict and i am only almost twenty	yeah , that is why i do not live with my parents anymore .
that is cool , i am bad at math	haha i grew up in a strict atmosphere . as a child
i just wanna chill with friends	aw that is pretty cool i did well in school
i just want to travel the world , what kind of truck ?	do you go alone or with friends
i walk to work every day	i drive a big truck with lifted wheels , what do you drive ?
i can not afford a car	i do not work right now i just drive around
hi graham , i am ashley , i am a 12 year old female tell me about you	hi , how are you ? i am great ! i am studying for school .
that sounds like fun . want to be friends , i do not have a lot of friends	well , that is acting in a sense .
my parents are cool , they make me go to school but i do not like it	i am not sure but i did not finish high school .
that is a lot of books what else do you like ?	read a lot so would have time to study .
i like pizza and dr pepper	japanese food is my all time favorite . and you ?
me neither . that would hurt . i like video games	i do not . i have heard of it though .
i used to love nintendo . tetris is my favorite	i like to play on my nintendo switch
same here . you be well	it was nice talking to you as well , we should hangout sometime .
sure , i am bob the builder	good morning ! i am having coffee . how is your morning ?
i also really like star wars	that you know about haha .
that is absolutely great just fantastic	i think with more coffee you could do it
only if you consider football a religion .	no , all i like is grey , yoga , and writing .
i have a problem with coffee	haha , i would like to write a book . i would need a lot of coffee for that .
not when you are poor and do not own anything .	i think with more coffee you could do it
yeah that is cool , what is your favorite color ?	i think it is an important thing to consider , but not the only thing .
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	i would not say i have a favorite color because it depends , i will say purple .
i am good , just got back from work	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i like the woods but not the desert , to many scorpions	i am doing well , now that work is over . how are you ?
what do you gamble on	you drove a car ? how ?
ok , do you like sports ?	i do not work like average people have a farm and several dogs
do you ski ? or snowshoe ?	yes i am around sports all the time
what do you do for work	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
nice , do you get free food ? i work at the post office	i work for the postal service , what do you do ?
do you have any pets	i am employed . i would with food .
i am good . enjoying the day at home after working this morning . how are you ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i am a bank teller now , not sure how much longer .	i am a finance consultant for a bank
i like it , but daycare for one is expensive , and i am having twins soon .	do you have children ? i have 2 .
only dancing i do is down the hall to the bathroom in our new house .	i would love to have kids some day . any grandkids yet ?
it is , and throw another kid in the mix it is a party .	it certainly is ! any kids ? i have two . twins .
the occasional dinner out . i was vegan before the twins , i crave steak now .	no , not really . my kids keep me pretty busy so little time for hobbies .
not anymore . you can not be too fashionable this pregnant .	yes . i like to eat .
i am doing great ! what are you doing ?	hi . i am good how about you ?
i am watching a movie on tv with my girlfriend .	just watching car videos about cars . i really like them .
she is studying to be a financial planner right now .	haha , no , probably not her then .
i work for the a traveling circus . what about you ?	i do finance for a local business
no i am not . it is a interesting job . is construction difficult ?	i work for a construction , you ?
a lot of people make fun of me and call me a circus freak .	yeah , its def not boring . any plans for the weekend ?
yeah it does . i am one the main attractions .	oh i bet ! that is great though ! it takes someone special for that .
i am something a lot better . i move things with my mind .	what ? no way ! that is wild , yet awesome !
hi there ! i am doing great . i am originally from somalia . where are you from ?	i am good . where are you from ?
wow i actually live there now too ! where from ?	us born and raised . what do you do for a living ?
what type of school ? i went to a dancing school !	i wish cause that is where i would be . i need me a vacation .
i am learning to be a dance instructor in nyc . you ever dance ?	would it be good to take all the way across country ?
i wish i could do that ! i was forced to marry when i was in middle school .	no you stick to playing soccer professionally . where are you from ?
they are all in somalia . i see them from time to time . do you ?	no , no siblings . you ?
is he also in middle school ?	yes i do an older brother
do you guys get along ?	i stay in the states for now , school keeps me very busy .
no i rather dog . i own two of them .	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i am a teacher and i love children .	i work as a professor at a local school .
i would do that more often too if i had a larger income .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
do you like gardening ? i own a garden .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
i love the smell of the flowers in the air .	i love to garden during this time of year .
you life is so short . some time you forget about the little things .	i love fresh vegetables and fruits . do you have a garden ?
no . but my husband was a long time ago !	yes , when i am not deployed .
building boats , what kind you boats ?	i once took a year off of work and sailed around the world . it was amazing !
depressed . turning 40 is a bummer !	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
i have not sold 1 car all week and the wife spent all the money i had !	well its paying the bills so i cannot complain too much ?
i am getting a divorce and i would like a new job , too . hate it !	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
maybe i should try selling cosmetics ! i need money !	maybe i should invest in one then !
oh , cool . maybe we should get married !	practice all you can and it will pay off one day !
somebody who does not spend my money !	i am married but i may also be looking for someone on the side haha
everybody should have their own money , especially when they turn 40 !	i spend lots of cash on buying things for my hobbies .
not one day in her life !	i hope she was happy and said yes ?
hi sady ! i am kay and i love garth brooks .	hello ! what do you do ?
so sorry ! i was not allowed to listen to rock music when i was young .	we sound like my favorite type of music country ! can you play a guitar ? i can .
what museum ? did i mention that i love shania twain as well ?	my dad drives a truck . he tought me , now that is my career .
i have always wanted to see the metropolitan museum of art .	i currently work for a museum .
you would not know it to look at me , but i actually grow my own tea .	i put it in my tea sometimes . shhh !
no kidding ! sounds like we have a lot in common .	i grow orchids and hibiscus . wish i had a truck , too !
yeah ? do you live in europe ? or is your tea imported ?	i grow orchids and hibiscus . wish i had a truck , too !
neither have i , unfortunately . it has been a dream to visit europe and canada , though .	no only in america . i make a lot of money here
hi how are you doing ? i am fine thank you .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i am alone but have two dogs . and you .	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
good for you i wished i was in my thirties .	its fun . whats your favorite drink ?
i do not work anymore i am disabled .	i am a bartender . i sell beer .
i like to get in a tub full of bubbles and relax .	i do , thankfully . i hop you are well .
yes she is okay . that is so cool great i like 711 stores .	what about you ? are you married or single ?
so cool i cannot have a drink with alcohol .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
slurpee sounds so tasty yes my friend drinks beer .	be careful . do not drink and drive .
i am so fetch ! how are you ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
ha ha no . it is a mean girls reference . that is my favorite movie .	haha . not in a bad way .
oh that sounds awesome ! i love them ! when was that ?	my favorite band nightfish , plays a song about dog vs cat owners .
oh wow . you must be a superfan . what else do you like to do ?	really ? ! ! i also have 2 cats and 3 dogs .
ugh study ! no thank you ! i would rather go out and party	i have a job in finance
basically i do take time out to volunteer though . to keep my feet on the ground .	right on ! i do love to party . i do not party as much as i would like to though .
a food bank near my house . do you ever volunteer ?	i like to volunteer at my local animal shelters . what about you ?
repairs ? on your house ? or are you a handyman ?	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
i am doing well , just finished playing my piano	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i play a few instruments , but i teach piano , how old is she ?	i am relaxing by the piano . and yourself ?
guitar , violin , flute . do you play any instruments ?	i play music because my job is being a musician .
basketball takes skills too . college or high school ?	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
you should finish college to have options , in my opinion	i want to open a homeless shelter
what are you in college for ? i like classical music , mozart	not too me depends on the artist really
engineering must be hard . you must be a smart kid	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
i would have liked to be an architect but went into music instead	a great way to help study is by listening to music . it really helps me !
i am 13 with an older brother .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i play on the soccer team . i really dislike match class . i ride the bus .	how old are you btw ?
you are quite old . i hope i live to be that old .	i bet ! do you like math ?
i really like to dance but am not good at it . i am only good at soccer .	i love vegetables ! i know that not everyone shares that point of view .
thank you , that means a lot to me .	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
i bet you have seen many many things .	i hope that you are still able to live a full life .
really ? ! no tv ! ! ? ? how did one survive ?	i watched it when i was younger .
that really sounds just wonderful .	i have seen the old television version and read the book .
just having a cup of coffee getting ready for work you	not much ! just trying to wind down before work tomorrow
what is your favorite rap song and that good	hey there , i just got off work , you ?
good song and what your favorite beverage ?	i like rap , and cultural music
pizza is nice it hard to find a good cup of coffee around here	i like rap , and cultural music
me and wife ride bikes i just do not like why she has to have pink bike	yes mountain bike or motorcycle i just love it
nice car anyways what you do for work	do not blame you mine likes to ride in my honda
sounds fun just enjoy working morning going home to relax	i am working with construction companies now
animals is nice have any more ?	i like to listen to music
what kind of dreams do you have ?	i am currently a college student what about you ?
cool ! i kayak for fun but you are cooler than me	i am a student with some small ambitions . what do you do for a living ?
i learned how to from my parents	a little bit different than kayaking , you should try some time
hey that works . i make a bit of money dog walking	what do you want to do after you graduate ?
i absolutely love hard rock	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
folk music is nice too . i listened to it a lot in college	rock mostly . do you have a favorite artist or band ?
i am in texas . i went to school in illinois though	i am from chicago , illinois but i now live in wisconsin .
allow extra time for everyone around you to commute	no i play the violin you ?
i try to spend weekends with friends . i love to host dinner parties	yes , i teach guitar , violin , etc . i play several instruments actually
i also play music which involves alcohol . moderation is the key	what kind of instrument do you play ?
congratulations . one day at a time . how long has it been ?	i want to open a homeless shelter
i do not trust medication . you can stay sober without it . concentrate on your art and people will love you	i am not sure really its been so long
i grew up on a small farm . i miss it , do you ?	yes . i live on a farm , actually . you ?
i understand . it seems like a give or take relationship . convenience vs . independence	no not at all it is very relaxing .
hey share the cream ! haha	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
vanilla is my fav as well	yes , healthy desserts are the best !
haha that is cute haha , what you do for living	do you like animals ? ? cats and dogs are my fav i love them
wow really , i am in highschool and i plan to become a physical therapist	i work as an athlete , i do not really like it .
wow seriously , that would be great	i am glad you are taking that in school !
wow that crazy , its a pleasure talking to you	you have a lot of medals ?
i love to run , my goal is to run a k	i go to a secret college for athletes only ! !
that is amazing , i am winner for homecoming queen this year	are you actually in high school
hey ! just came back from playing some ping pong . you ?	hey , i am fine just sitting here playing the piano
do you have a job ? me and my father are working as an electrician !	i play the guitar ! do you have any pets ?
you should move down south , we got a lot of delicious chocolate here that i love eating !	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
do you like music ? i play piano and violin sometimes !	i am in colorado . it is a bit chilly outside
oh we should try to do some songs together !	i play music because my job is being a musician .
i say hey yay yay , i say hey , what is going on ?	ca not really do much in this weather !
damn you got some bars homie , you should sign up a record deal or something	songs , that is what i listen to all day !
we are no strangers to love , you know the rules and so do i	you could use my perfect list of songs for that
i am not vegan , and i have a german shepherd that i love to pieces .	yes i am a dog lover .
i love hummus . he is brown mostly .	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
cool ! personally i love watching nhl hockey .	you watched the wrong video . all of our farms are have laws and standards .
you are so right about disney !	do you ever watch hockey ?
i do not sky dive , i am not brave . i live in rural farming community .	i also enjoy diving . need to go back soon .
i raise my own food , no pool , and i do have a television .	no , i do not . i keep to myself mostly .
yes he is , but my dog only watches when i do .	i have dog . he is so cute !
i suppose it is better than thinking he is a lion .	i run and play with my dog spot . he is a collie .
good . yourself ? listening to classical music	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
can you do a kick flip ?	i play and teach as well . it is my passion .
as did i once fell off my riding tractor that is red color favorite .	i do , but i am not very good at it . is it a hobby of yours ?
as do i at youth christian faith .	yeah i bet ! that must be difficult .
do you like the color red ?	yes , i believe in that sincerely . how is work for you ?
i like red fire hydrants i day dream of em .	i love the color red so much . what do you do for fun ?
yes i do i like going to the zoo .	yes ! they are my favorite .
no i have not . i like red i have a red keyboard	yes i have been , it is beautiful
the day was strange , i found out i am special	hello its going good . . . u ?
how are you special ? i recently went through an operation	you are awful young
replace my exterior heart so i can live	wow that is not good for dog
lol i can move objects with my brain so its not bad	i suppose it can not hurt
i am young i do not understand	i will sing you a song .
doctors told me not to have candy	yes i love it though , ppl have weird request
i also love chocolate because it so goof	chocolate is some good candy , i am allergic though .
i have known nothing but my room in the hospital	i live in arizona . you ?
terrible . my dad keeps trying to send me on blind dates .	hi doing great , how about you ?
he is killing me . i always work weekends .	yes . i never got to do much , i had to start work at a young age .
dog agility ? what the crap ?	do you enjoy working with dogs ?
that is the most ridiculous thing i have ever heard .	basically , all i need to do now is adopt a dog and i am set .
you pay to do this ?	yes that is never fun .
maybe my dad could fix you up on a blind date .	yes , but it does not pay very well .
you are spending your weekends trying to make your dog more agile .	they think it will corrupt me or some stupid thing .
there just has to be more to life .	do you enjoy djing my children and i garden alot .
seattle . i love listening to live music here .	in the city of n y is where i live and you ?
nope . i just play video games and go to the gym .	no , i am currently unemployed . i do not like the career path i chose .
not really . i just go to mall and look at leggings .	i do not cook very much .
gross . i think the dirt would mess up my skinny jeans .	i do not work , i play in a band .
well at least my short hair would keep me cool .	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
yeah especially since i am so skinny .	ca not really do much in this weather !
definitely not . would not be able to fit my leggings !	most definitely , you must be quite short then !
i would for sure hit the treadmill .	most definitely , you must be quite short then !
hi ! i am hanging out with my dog trooper . you ?	hello , what are you up to ?
sounds awesome ! you must be busy .	i like dogs ! and i like hiking .
i work as a mechanical engineer . the hours can be long sometimes .	i am studying to be an engineer .
i love hiking and rock climbing ! what about you ?	i just write stories , love my dog and do a lot of rock climbing .
you should visit colorado where i live . it is very pretty here .	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
it is a great place to visit for photography !	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
no , but i would love to learn spanish .	i can only speak one language !
haha ! do you have a pet ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
ah . my do is a black lab .	no pets . i would love to get a dog to take on hikes !
good . just got back from horse riding and relaxing now .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
do you have any horses ? are they in high school ?	for who the kids ? some of them already went an graduated
you are so lucky ! i cannot have a horse until i graduate .	yes , most of them are .
two whole years ! that is forever . i just stare at my purple walls .	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
i want a mini horse with a lime green saddle to match my carpet .	my two faves , purple and dogs !
is her hair brown and straight or curly ? she might get teased in high school .	i would love that , thank you ! can i wear it to sleep ?
high school is the pits . teased for horses , being vegan , anything .	she is very kind and smart .
it sure can ! the teachers especially hate us all .	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
how about you , do you like yourself	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
i have to go do homework now . my mini horse awaits !	haha , true . purple actually ! you ?
happy birthday ! most days i am happy just to go to the gym	i thought you said you were 21 ?
not really . i collect vintage cars .	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
yes ! i have an orange alfa romeo from johnny carson	yes , i wish i could own one ! do you have any hobbies ?
allergic ! by working from home i do get to take a lot of cool rides though	i have dog . he is so cute !
fish are friends ! i love talking to my fish ! !	yes and i try to spend lots of time with him
cute name . working from home would give you more time with fish friends !	she sounds adorable . do you have a car ?
being carefree is totally where the good life is !	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i am doing well . just got home from work . how are you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
wow ! very nice . i drive a bmw . what do you do ?	i am trying to get my ba in finance
i work as an accountant with my finance degree acquired in 2011 .	i work in the banking industry . how about you ?
my parents bought me a yorkie yesterday ! being successful wealthy bankers and all .	my pets are two dogs .
no . i am into punk rock ! is being a mechanic your dream job ?	i love country music and r b music .
yeah . next year i want to go to business school to become a manager .	i remember that time of life ! i am too busy getting my business started for that .
what do you like to do for fun ?	need to get ready for work . business school is not cheap !
i like to take my dog for walks and sometimes i volunteer .	i go to music concerts and festivals all the time , except for rap
good , how are you today ?	hi ! i am doing well , how about you ?
must be cold where you at ? i am in pennsylvania	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
hopefully this winter not bad . i pregnant first child	true story , man . and this is our rainy month . though they claim that would be april .
thanks , just started new job as a pa so hopefully good maternity leave	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
personal assistant . what kind of work do you do ?	uh , it would depend on the movie i guess
wow very cool ! my husband likes to skateboard on weekends	i work in new york , you ?
hope your arm heals soon ! did you break it skateboarding	yeah i bet ! that must be difficult .
do you like reading ? i try to read a new book every week	it was the only major injury i ever had
hi , just imagining world take over . you ?	no i have children to take care of are you going to do that ?
have you thought about housekeeping ? it is what i do	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
i was one a painter , loved that . good luck in restaurants !	i have to raise two bad children .
teeth seem difficult to work with . do you have kids ?	my line of work keeps me very busy , so it is okay .
i have 2 adult children , i never see them though .	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
what concert ? i use to travel with a band when i was young	have you been to a concert yet ?
nice , i was beautiful once , but now i am 56	i went to his concert last year ! he is great !
time is not always kind to us though	that is beautiful ! i would love to do so myself one day .
kind of tired . i hate monday .	i am great getting ready to skateboard
no i am in between jobs .	not as much as i do . what else do you do ?
i am not really sure . i broken my arm skateboarding .	i am in school . what about you ?
that is okay . the price of having fun . what do you do ?	yes ! it is so annoying .
at the same time ? that is a lot .	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
what do you want to do ?	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
i see . maybe i could use that for my broken arm . i want to make hats .	on health silly ! i need to learn how to make good choices .
i am wearing one now , made from paper .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
good . i am a cashier at the local supermarket , you ?	hello there . i am doing pretty well and you ?
interesting . i live in ohio , never been anywhere else . what about you ?	i work in a coffee shop , hbu ?
it is pretty boring , not much to do . do you have pets ?	i am in ohio . do you live in the city ? i have never really been to the city . . .
my cats name is spook . what is your favorite food ?	no i do not have pets either . kind of lonely sounding , huh ?
pizza with black olives .	i love sushi and chinese food . you ?
do you have any hobbies ?	i like chinese , you can get it delivered
i would love to know more about solar energy . i like to swim .	i love trying new restaurants and window shopping .
i love to go to the beach as well . what is your favorite color ?	i like to fish and swim .
sure . i am 23 years old and i eat a whole lot of food .	hello , and yes i would love that .
i love it . i tried to cook it but i am bad at cooking .	yes . i like to eat .
i had pizza in italy . i travel a lot .	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
where do you live then ?	why is that ? so much world out there .
oh . i still need to eat ohio food . i want to eat all kinds of food .	i would love to visit there . never really traveled , guess we wo not now .
i get plenty of exercise so it is not a problem for me .	yes . i have something for that but you would have to see a doctor .
yeah , are you obsessed with anything ?	yeah it is quite unhealthy .
oh , i have never heard of them .	yes i have heard of them . do you like them ?
hey there , sure i guess , do you have a favorite color ?	hello , and yes i would love that .
purple and lime green , actually just finished painting my room those	i like blue i guess , you ?
i am still in highschool , two years left , no idea what i am going to do	what do you study ? i already graduated .
they tell you to have it figured out by junior year though ,	school is always a good idea .
that is awfully expensive though is it not ?	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
i would love to do that , but i only travel for my horse competitions	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
all over depending what we qualify for , i mean not out of the us anyways	i would like to visit once i graduate .
it would be expensive , and my horse would just not have it	if i could go to school , i would do something to travel the world .
absolutely ! how old are you ? i am in my 30s .	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
oh wow , that is quite a difference . do you know what a lite brite is ?	ha ! how old are you , i am 20 .
it was my favorite toy as a child . what kind of music do you like ?	i just think it is , i guess i am old fashioned
do you like new kids on the block ? i love them , and old school hip hop .	i listen to hip hop mostly .
that is funny ! i take dance lessons so i can dance just like them .	agreed . old school music is the best .
that is so exciting ! what do you want to study in college ?	how old are you ! i graduated high school not too long ago .
oh wow , i could never be a vegan . i love cheese way too much !	but the cost of school is so high .
i can only imagine . what are your favorite foods ?	but the cost of school is so high .
no i live in ohio how about you	hey , how are you ? do you have a favorite band ?
no i am not her	you should ask her out . where do you work ?
are you in jail	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
did you stole a toy	ahhhh do not feel guilty . we all do what we can , right ?
i am just guy who works at supermarket	i think it had more to do with the fact that she was stealing from work .
i am not sure i can	of course ! it is the best money can buy .
i do have money i will try to buy it	no , i do not make enough money .
sure what is your favorite food	is there good money in that
i am just out walking my dog	hello , what are you up to ?
horses are great too but i hate scorpions	i walk dogs and one of them got hit .
i am sure you did what colors do you like	wow , that is harsh . i love dogs , in fact i have two of them
i am boring and like grey	i was gonna guess that blue was your favorite ha
i work at the post office	i work for the government , its a boring job
are you getting ready to move	i just wish i did not live in the bad part of town
that is great ave you always wanted to be a lawyer	yeah who needs work do you have a car
that is great you must be excited	what is your dream job ?
hello , and congratulations . my dog says hello too .	i have two dogs ! they enjoy running around my farm
no , she is sitting here staring at my screen , watching me type .	no , i work too much for kids .
i do not know who that is .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
no , i am in my late twenties .	i do not think so . there are too many farms , and i hate vegetables !
no , i have not . that is a weird thing ;	i did not think so . but now i know for sure .
i do , but i have a feeling we have different tastes in movies .	no i prefer to be watching tons of movies .
star wars , captain america , fast and the furious .	i like romantic comedies or action movies .
rogue one is my favorite .	the movies are okay , but the books are so much better .
nothing much listening to some music you ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
neat what kind of dog ?	do you think that dogs could be trained to read ?
that must be some dog . are you a trainer ?	oh cool , what breeds of dogs ?
my dog goes where i go , we live in memphis .	i do not work really just in music
i spend a lot of time singing in this great usa .	like duh ! you said that . so you must be in the country ?
yea not much my style either some jeans and a hat is all i need most days	i always sing songs very loudly .
well i am a country boy and that is all i will ever be .	haha . are you into grunge style as well ?
one of my favorite lines yes !	not really it is nice to honor or country but yeah
i would be happy too . how are you doing today ?	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
i have the ability to charm others with my music . how about you ?	i play guitar and lead vocals .
that is exciting . i play country music	i do not play but listen all kinds of music .
yes i am sure you can hear me play my guitar	i do not play but listen all kinds of music .
it may lonely but i am sure it is beautiful . do you make friends with the birds ?	i am sure your singing is great . where do you work ?
how do the birds respond to you freezing them	ca not really do much in this weather !
yes sometimes . i would like for you to hear it . what is your favorite song ?	yes , i do . do you sing or play or just listen ?
i am not familiar with it but i will look it up sometime	i am not sure i have a favorite song . do you ?
i am so glad i am not in school anymore and work full time instead .	i am actually in the navy . what do you do for a living ?
i work with a local volunteer opportunity that rescues bunnies .	i am actually in the navy . what do you do for a living ?
they are very cute . i was in the military so it is great therapy .	i used to when i was a kid as an army brat . you ?
there are so many i cannot count .	both good guesses . 23 actually . i rescue them .
yes they eventually get adopted .	they do not . do you want to adopt me ?
they run very fast and are hard to catch . do you like animals ?	well , it would be harder to adopt them to someone . but , if that is what you like . . .
i wish i had a dog .	i have a dog and cat . i adopted my dog when he was still a puppy
i am a big fan of german shepherds .	labrador retriever named tucker , they are wonderful dogs if you are looking .
hello . i only speak english . how is your day ?	nope i only speak english .
good . just got home from work at burger king .	hey there ! pretty good so far . you ?
oh ! how cool . what language ?	do you work ? i am in school .
si ! muy bien . i am so proud of you !	i can only speak english and spanish . what do u do for work ?
just a small amount . i took 4 years in high school . then forgot most of it .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
yes ! and chemistry as well .	wait , technically , you know four languages . . . if you count english .
i like anything but country music . you ?	i love music , i listen to it almost constantly !
same ! i just listen to whatever my friends have on in their cars .	i like jazz , rap . how about you ?
wow that is cool mr . i am only 4	hi there , do you like it there ?
yeah flowers are okay . my mom got me turtle	no , i have flower plants instead .
no i make messed with my toys and do not pick them up .	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
is that so ? have you ever stepped on a lego ?	ha . that is one way to look at it . do you have any pets ?
yeah my parents do not like it . so i try to play with dolls	no , that is just crazy .
mine were before , but i never clean them	my best friends son has a turtle . he is pretty large now .
oh you are going to go shower ?	i would rather it stays like this for me .
oh yes , i think that is right	i kind of do not . they are messy . whatever . any plans today ?
i am great george , just set around braiding my dogs hair	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
i lied i do not have a dog , but do have a bird	i have a little dog , you ?
wow , you have seen the bees knees , i am i mean i was a doctor	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
ten years , but now i am searching for a job because i got fired	two years i am in the same job , what do you do ?
making a video for americas funniest videos , while doing heart surgery	i actually just got fired for a mistake i made .
i do , and now i just watch my all time favorite movie friday , hey	yes but i do some of it as well .
i love going to the park . do you ? i like to trip roller skater with logs	are you close to your family ?
well , tell my old boss that , i like farms , i like to play with piglets	yeah i find it too funny .
howdy ! ! ! i just got done working the farm so i need to relax !	well hello there ! how are you today ?
wow ! i live in the country so i have a farmers tan !	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
tell me about it ! my pet cow will be sad when it gets colder . betsy loves warmth .	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
my electrician salary could not afford all that !	haha ! so , are you like a stay at home mom or something ?
i blast good ole country music in my big dodge ram !	country music of course , the classic kind .
my parents would yell if they heard britney spears ! their farm is country only !	i love country ! and hip hop .
what is your favorite sports car ? only big trucks for me .	indeed . cars are very expensive !
tells you they are not hillbillies huh !	ah . well hopefully he drives a ford truck like a real man .
i am good and you ?	i am good . how about oyu
my favorite color is blue . do you have a favorite character ?	org i love disney !
my favorite character is mickey mouse .	my favorite is red . i have got a dog and he is red too
every year i would love to go to disney world with my family .	you have a singing horse . are you a disney princess ? i am married !
i love frozen so i love to sing the songs from the movie .	is there a church near you ? or is that far too .
yes well i love disney musicals .	i am more of a movie person than a music person .
tangled was good but frozen was great .	what do you like to do ? i love disney movies and dancing .
what grade are you in ?	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
you hiring ? i am forty , a car salesman and unhappily married .	i am a car salesman
wow ! my divorce is final tomorrow . wife is a big spender but does not work .	married ? do you have a family ?
great ! you need a car ? i wish i had a business . you happy ?	see that is the thing , i do not have the money to spend , but i still spend .
that is good ! what kind of business are you in ? you hiring ?	i have been saving money for a new car . mine is 24 years old .
wow ! is forty old ? my wife takes my money . help !	my job is in car sales . how about you ?
the divorce ! what positions do you have open ?	i have 20 wives , what you know about marriage son !
get out ! i hate selling cars . you need a salesperson ?	i am the president of a little marketing consulting agency .
i am good just resting had a long day volunteered at a soup kitchen	hello , i am doing good and you ?
omg noo lol are you ok	what did you do before you retired ?
whats your favorite food ? mine is cheeseburgers	are you currently retired ? lol
i was same way when i gew up since we were poor my 1st job was mcdonalds	omg ew , i never eat that anymore lol
omg that is crazy my lil sister says she is running out of songs since she uses ppl	omg ew , i never eat that anymore lol
alright watching tv and you ?	its been going alright . enjoying the weekend . you ?
i am ariel by the way were are you from ?	i watch whatever is on
that is me lol but i guess we keep getting each other so what sports do you like ?	i am from the great us of a
i agree , nice to meet you jane	hi ! no that has never happened to me .
i am jess , i have 3 dogs . i love dogs ! do you have any pets ?	i am sorry , sounds like you have alot of issues .
that is great ! i love burger king ! i have a dog walking business	no i work too much to have any pets . how about you ?
i enjoy watching gymnastics , what do you like to do ?	sorry ! my dad move there i was 2 , been the man of the house since .
it is always good to have a well rounded social life !	i like to do what i want , its my world .
it is important to make time !	that is true . what is your family life like ?
where do you go to school ? what is your major ?	school is not the only important thing in life . they should understand that
that is great ! do you have a major ?	i go to business school . your dad is not understanding ?
oh i am doing ok , you ?	doing well , thank you . living on a farm now .
that must have been crazy . do you have pets ?	great ! you live on a farm ? i do not .
that is great , i have a cow	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
you are an olympian ? yeah my parents farm	i love the farm life !
that is wild , in what ? horses too	i have a few dogs , cats , chickens and more farm animals . i love all animals .
that is fine , what are you eating ?	i love to eat . especially at food trucks !
sounds great , i love noodles	stuffed green bell peppers packed full of beef and cheese ! how about you ?
any kind of ramen i love	i love anything off of a food truck ! what do you do for fun ?
rap is my favorite music i also produce them	i am good . listening to some music .
i have a pet and it is called charlie	i like the rap music do you ?
good for you , i have a 2015 civic from honda	what kind of dog is he
it is a dog , what is your favorite food , i love pizza	what type of car do you drive ?
where do you want to go , how much will you paid me to drive you ?	i love pizza , do you drive ?
pizza is good , what type of pizza do you like ?	i go to music concerts and festivals all the time , except for rap
i love pineapple pizza and soda	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
coke is it and you ? do you like 7 up ?	i like tofu and organic rice
wow that is funny what do you do for a living	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
that is so cute i am in college	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
computer science its challenging but interesting	i study to be a teacher
sure what should i know	our dad does of course , you should study computer science when you are older !
that sounds like a good car	if i drove i would probably wonder that .
wow five boys sounds like a handful	haha you would be on the road all the time
my parents came here from india	i do not care too much for them , but i sure do love coffee !
they did but they are pushing me to be the best i can	yes i did that on purpose . they love it too .
hi there . i am well , thanks . yourself ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
i finally finished unpacking tonight . you have a spanish test ?	i feel you . i am bilingual . . . english and spanish . what about you ?
that is interesting . what does that word mean ?	i am not very good at spanish , but i did take it in high school .
i just moved to the usa from romania .	i speak french and spanish i want to teach my kids
i take care of my stepchildren and am currently 6 months pregnant with triplets . . . so no work .	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
i only speak english . my parents and grandparents moved to romania from yorkshire when i was three .	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
most of the townspeople actually spoke decent english where i grew up in romania .	i speak two languages , french and english !
i lived in paris as an exchange student in high school . i hated the language barrier .	i speak two languages , french and english !
hi . i try all kinds of coffee as a hobby and i read poetry .	i work in a coffee shop , hbu ?
i really love star wars and am a huge fan . do you like it ?	i also like to cook . i have a trophy for cooking from when i was a child .
me too ! i also like to make paella . i played for a division of football in college .	i have never heard of you but i do not watch much football .
i have heard that about people who are descendants of christopher columbus .	the best way to cook fish !
i do not remember . maybe linebacker ? i have forgotten how to play .	quarterback . i was not great at it , but it was a small school .
i know ! we surely do .	did you ever play football ?
you must also love poetry and coffee	i love playing football . how about you ?
i like to cook , run , read poetry , drink coffee , play football . and starwars	and coffee ? coffee is very important to me !
i am a chef . my name is larry what is yours ?	i work as a chef
not at the moment . do you have any hobbies ?	i do not currently have a job . i am looking though .
i love to be on the water , fishing is one of my favorite things to do .	i love to cook ! it is one of my favorite hobbies .
nice , i like comic books as well . what position do you play in basketball .	i have a younger sister . she is in the first grade .
your mom was probably looking out for you . do you have any pets ?	i also read and am an excellent cook . what else do you do ?
no i always wanted a dog . what state do you live in ?	no , i do not have any pets either .
never heard of him . what type of music does he sing ?	i live in ca , where are you from ?
i like to snowboard in the winter .	i like to listen to rap while cooking dinner .
i feel tired this morning , worked too late last night .	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
i work at burger king part time , and go to school part time .	i actually wait tables in a restaurant , you ?
me too , but i am not the boss . are you working ?	yeah i do not drink . odd one at my school .
no i have to get going again to work . i want to save money and move out .	no , just school . cannot wait to finish and move out !
i have no idea , just out from my parents home	i want to be older and move out of this place
that would be nice . are you renting it out ?	i know i need to move out of my parents house , i am 30 !
i am very easygoing , no drinking or drug .	no , renting , but planning to buy one .
ah good . that is fun . i will come take a look .	weed smoking it guy ? no cliches there , lol .
sure ! i just got back five guys	i would hope not ! ll
what sport do you enjoy ?	good how are you doing ? are you in school
well , i am a teacher ! little kids !	i like to play sports an bake
what are some of projects ? i am going to get married	yes i bet do you plan on having more kids or are you done ?
my favorite color is green !	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
i just went to the movies , but there was nothing good !	i like to spend the time in concerts . whats the kids fav . color in school ?
i hope so , because it was boring	that was a good movie ! what are your hobbies ?
i will as well ! thanks !	you have a great weekend and enjoy your movie !
mondays used to suck , but i am retired so they do not bother me	i sew things like kids outfits and shirts .
i remember that feeling , its a good one , do you love it ?	do you have any grandchildren ?
oh where were you from before	i have lived in many states . how about you ?
oh i want to visit there very badly , but my cancer just went into remission	i was borne in usa , and you ?
breast cancer , really took a toll on me	my grandmother just died from lung cancer , sucks
hopefully it will stay in remission , what do you do for a living ?	my grandmother just died from lung cancer , sucks
so you do not work whatsoever ?	i am a retired nurse
then that would be considered working ? do you enjoy it ?	nope , full time school . and you ?
hey there rick , i am andy . are you in aaa like me ?	my name is andy . i am from cleveland
i travel in the city . my meds make me see things some times .	well no , i just travel a lot . do you ?
45 . stay away from alcohol , and if you can , buy a farm .	i am 42 , feel 50 though .
retiring as a teen ? that is pretty impressive . what do you do ?	i think you have been mixing to many alcoholic beverages .
oh , okay . i thought you said 16 . sorry , i see things at times .	i am in college and work in the library .
i take a lot . some days eight , some days twelve .	i think there are medications for that now .
thank you . how did you end up a librarian ?	i know what you mean . do you take medication for it ? it helps !
thank you , lunch time is over for me as well .	work in the children section of the library .
i am pretty good . just a little lonely .	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
i am dave . what is your favorite show ?	hello . how are you doing today ? i am good .
i like every show i have ever seen	i watch a lot of tv
i think i will be alone forever . you ?	no , no children , not married . you ?
we are so similar . do you like cars like me ?	no kids , i am single .
you live alone with your husband ?	yes we have several cars . do you not like driving ?
i would not know what that is like since i never had a relationship .	i wish i had kids , i have been single way too long .
i am sick , thank goodness my husband is a doctor . stupid flu .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
no , i do play tennis professionally though . any sports for you ?	no . you own a tennis racket ? you married ?
that sounds super fun ! i bet my kids would love it . i have so many .	no . you own a tennis racket ? you married ?
my family is growing yet again , twins . i cannot travel or i would totally .	of course might as well pay family members .
thanks , they are expensive . we just had to move to a 3 storey home .	i do not have any kids either .
mine is growing all the time . i feel like john and kate plus 8 sometimes .	i hope to settle one day ! family is everything .
apparently i am very fertile . just look at me the wrong way and i am pregnant lol .	i would like more kids one day .
i cannot even keep them straight half the time .	you mentioned kids . are you married ?
i love ice cream what is your favorite ? mine is chocolate	i am from maine , it is cold here
i love wife and my kids they love chocolate ice cream also	i love homemade vanilla icing
three children is in my family , i work as a plumber	i am 38 lol . do you have any kids ?
you want my kids ? plenty to spare , we go to park together	i was an alcoholic . . recovering now so i cannot . where do you work
oh , kids is not good for you then , i take that back . how is it going ?	well i should really go , my kids need me .
okay , sorry to know . are you lonely ?	i think there are medications for that now .
think positive , how is your social life ?	i hope you will not die alone . i have no kids either
you will soon , it is good to have a family .	i am sorry . what is the matter do you think ?
i am great . just making a salad . yummy	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
oh no . i eat very clean . maybe some strawberries	i like everything except for salad . did you go to culinary school ?
i really miss it but i have been eating healthy ever since i overcame cancer	do you eat any of it ?
yes i just got a new job yesterday	yes ! i am now a coach at the school ! what do you do ?
i am a life coach	its a job . what do you study ? any hobbies ?
yes i do . my parents are very athletic like i am	i have no family , that is why
that is great . kids are lovely	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
i love driving my pathfinder , it is a nissan .	are you in school presently ?
that is a great job ! high paying . my hair is short and is brown	i love country music and r b music .
i like taylor swift not death metal . . .	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
i love county music , and exercise	i have a very free spirit .
we all have different values .	from tennessee , how about you ?
i live in the country in usa .	what part of the country do you live in ?
how boring is your life ? do you like country music ?	you do not live in florida , do you ?
is it hot there now ? almost winter .	yeah i do i listen to every type there is .
i am good . i am eating chocolate . it is my favorite .	hello , i am fine and you ?
i am only 4 . i will be 5 when i have a birthday .	do you like dogs ? how about cats ?
no . but i have blocks and like to play with them and sing .	yes , i have a dog . do you ?
how many do you have ?	i have a couple of cats . i love teasing them . so what do you do for fun ?
do your cats ever eat the birds ?	we have 4 cats . they are so odd at times .
i am sorry you are sad . do you want to play with my blocks ?	no , i do not like cats at all . sorry .
i like chipmunks too . i would want to play with them .	haha , sadly they do not like people talking thing like that out or in .
i am busted , a broken arm while skateboarding .	hi ! ! ! i am wonderful . and yourself ?
all my friends and i were skateboarding and i landed wrong .	you ever broke a bone ?
i understand , i fell , bones were broken , but my hat stayed on ! huh	i am not much of a hockey fan . i went to one game .
plenty hats , and a dog . we are both here watching rob dryden skateboard .	no , i do not have any pets .
i have a german shepherd also . the best dog ever .	my german shepherd can skate he is rad he can kickflip
no not my thing . i love card games .	yes ! they are my favorite .
i heard that from a few friends maybe i will try it someday .	you are right , like old school board games ?
that is very interesting . so i guess you live in a place with scorpions ?	i am sure my dog would love a visitor .
when i retire in few years i will travel all over the country to nascar races .	do you ever travel for work ?
i have seen scorpions during my travels to spain .	yes ! they are my favorite .
i did not know they had nascar in spain .	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
i have read about this in the library where i work .	i love that breed of dogs !
i have two dogs , tater and tot .	no , i did not know ! where do you live ?
at my age i should not be drinking anymore . how old are you ?	no i drink just water .
do you type with one finger ?	not since i turned 40 , lol .
oh i feel as if i could live forever ! i am quite strong for an old broad !	i am doing just fine , do you like watching movies ?
i could just dance and sip wine by the light of the moon !	i try to channel it all into my work
that will not put too many years on your life ! not as many as me !	yes , that is cool . do you watch tv often ?
come on . guess how old i am ! before tvs !	haha ! i wish i could ! what do you do ?
not even close ! i am 100 baby ! hash tag forever young	i was born in the eighties
life is good baby doll !	good age to be ! you can enjoy life ! ! !
that is nothing ! i had 10 and my husband made a dollar a week .	you have kids also ? i am glad i do not have any !
priorities are everything ! we made it work .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
ok . just enjoying my television watching time . wishing i had someone to watch with .	hello i am great , just watching tv . how are you
i wish i had a husband instead of being alone when i do my work at home .	what about you ? are you married or single ?
i guess it is because i do not have time with the gym , work , tv , and cars .	dating . free spirit at the moment . yes i do .
i love pizza , but i really enjoy putting my cash into the cars i have .	i love cheeseburgers and fries .
i am not really building . just love to spend money on buying them .	i restored a mustang . vroom
maybe i should spend more money on trying to take a date out to a nice restaurant .	you are lucky he makes so much money so you do not have to work !
yes . you think i would meet someone at the gym .	why would that keep you from dating ?
yes . just ask if they like cars .	why would that keep you from dating ?
hi there ! i am not into them , but my kids love them .	yes . buns in the oven . you met my 3 children ?
that is great ! i have three kids so we are always in need of them .	yeah i have had a ton of em . have you ever had a chocolate chip pancake ?
perfect . i do not , but my wife and kids would love a dog .	no , i do not have any pets .
oh no ! cats are such funny animals , very independent .	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
what do you do for a living ?	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
wow ! that is impressive . we love to eat ice cream while watching the olympics .	i am a professional plumber .
i prefer chocolate myself , but my wonderful wife loves vanilla .	i prefer vanilla myself .
it is the best . my wife and kids are awesome .	are you also married ? do you have children ?
uh okay ? way to reword a prompt ? what do you do for a living	hi , how are you ? i am great ! i am studying for school .
ever work with bath bombs ?	what is your job ? i am still in school .
that is pretty cool , i love those	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
no one loves abstaining from alcohol , do you have any animals ?	you should explore how to make some in a class .
i have four cats and a puppy , they are great to have	i have no cats . what kind of dogs do you have
well , i have a pure bengal , two mutts and a white one , there are technical breeds	i have no cats . what kind of dogs do you have
orange calico cats are very pretty	i like orange , hopefully get a dog this time for my good grades
well why should they be exempt unless they are working miracles	they do not want to study or get good jobs and then we have to cut their taxes .
good morning . my name is claire . how are you today ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
that is not old ! what do you do for a living ?	hi i am fine thank you and yourself .
i am sorry to hear that . i am partially deaf . it makes it hard to do somethings .	i work as a nurse . you ?
did you have many animals ?	what do you grow in your garden ?
i live in the suburbs and grow beautiful roses .	i also really like flowers gardens , planting , and of course receiving them
do you like to read ?	i also really like flowers gardens , planting , and of course receiving them
i have an extensive collection of books at home .	yes , but i love to read used books mainly .
i love murder mysteries and historic fiction .	who is your favorite author ? mine is dean koontz .
hi what is your name	hi , i am good . what about you ?
i am nikolai tesla	i am sam . what is your name ?
i am a stunt double	i work in a school
i like to read . what about you ?	i bet that is ! lucky you .
i was raised by a single parent . did you have both of yours ?	murder mystery novels mostly . what do you do ?
i am sorry to hear that	the first time i broke it is when my parents got divorced .
no i am not a fan of social media	i do ! it is good money , and being single it works for now .
i read up to twenty books in a year	it is the only thing i like in my life . what do you do ?
hi , i am from mass , how is the weather there ?	i am from california , and yourself ?
i could never climb , get go higher then the 3rd step of a ladder !	anything outside is enjoyable . what do you do for work ?
i walk dogs and own the business , do you like dogs ?	i have figured out how to make a living walking dogs . fun !
you don ; t have any pets ? dogs would love to hike with you !	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
bummer . i have never been to colorado , do you ski too ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
oh , snowboards are fun ! ski but don ; t really snowboard .	yes i love to be outdoors , especially in snow .
yes , people love it ! i like to surf and guess it would be like that .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
not up close but they have been all over this year !	no i have not , even if i do it still looked down upon .
i am a life coach and i am good at it	i work from home how about you ?
i will run right over and help	well you did a great job at doing it
i run marathons and that is serious business	what job would you lie to have ?
i eat clean and work out cleaner	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
i survived the cancer scare so i have to	what do you like to watch ?
germs track me at a grand scale	i would not worry about it . as long as you are happy with your life and yourself
wow that is great for you	i understand i like winter so i can take a break from running marathons .
i am new in this country , but i love to work at my school	that is funny ! i have two cats and five dogs
what is your breed ? how long ?	i have two boys and three little girls . any pets ?
that is sweet , triplets i will have in a few months	have one child myself and another on the way . ages ?
so cute i love puts , do you have kids ? my step children are great	he is 3 . do you want kids eventually ?
thank you so much ! i am so happy .	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
i know what you mean , that is what life is all about	they are a lot of work , but so worth it !
you will , i hope you read your bible	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
why is that ? it is the best book in the world	not very true to the books !
i am great , do you have any pets ?	hi , its going well and you ?
no , i am more of a vegan	no , no pets . do you have any ?
i ate them so i punished myself by going vegan	no , i do not have any pets either .
fast ones , but i would rather sky dive	no i do not like it .
music is fun but i would rather swim	can do that underwater . music is not my thing .
do you think roller coasters are too	you swim to get around ? do you live in water world
gotta keep on moving right .	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
i am allergic to them but i do it anyway	well yeah would like to ride one , what kind do you have ?
how are you . where are you from ?	doing fine , doing fine . what time is it there ?
oh great . i am living in ohio and working for a local supermarket	i am in ohio . do you live in the city ? i have never really been to the city . . .
good to know . what is your favorite food ? mine is pizza with black olives	i go to high school , but i make some money at a local pizza place . you ?
do you have any pet at your home . because i love cats and i have one spook .	i use too but right now i need the money .
that too cool . which is your favorite band ? mine is who	i do not blame you do you have any pets ?
you are great ! i love that band too at sometimes .	i never heard of that band before . are they good ?
then what is your next plan on your future after schooling	i love that band ! ! they are awesome
yeah mechanical engineering have great scope . you can get better jobs as well	i plan to start school again next fall .
hey , my dogs are pretty silly both of then	i cook some good cookies
they took the cookies i baked , but i am gonna be sad when they die , scary	sad to hear that . i thought you said you worked too much though ?
death is scary really but bake sale is my world	i do like to bake . especially dog treats for my two small dogs .
wow that is pretty cool what else you do for fun	i also bake , maybe some salmon or yellowtail .
just collecting baking stuffs	i love to write and draw . i like to create stories for fun
oh that is what i do sometimes	i also bake , maybe some salmon or yellowtail .
nothing really except baking and stuffs	i want to also make dessert .
oh i wanna get there and experience	it is a bit chilly but nice .
hi , how old are you ? i am 6o	i am good . do you collect anything ?
i am fine at my age , i am thinking about retirement	in a place far far away , you ?
i live in ny i work as a librarian	hope to retired soon so i can do that
i want to be happier , so i can visit spain again	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
you like the country side and not the city ?	do you live in spain ?
i love spain so much , i been there 6 times .	do you live in the usa ? what will you do in retirement ?
air is much fresher in the country	are you on any medication ?
it feels much safer that way , i know	i live out the the country so asthma would not be good .
that is great , i am a grad student	i am doing well , how are you ? the weather is nice here , and there ?
kayaking and reading psychology books	i like cooking , swimming , my dogs .
i love it , i am an awesome swimmer	i like to go kayaking .
not really a fan , i am a meats kind of guy	vegan , you should try it
i love barbeque ribs and macaroni	no favorite foods really . what about you ?
sounds interesting . so what do you do for a living ?	i like chicken or macaroni and cheese .
i walk dogs part time to pay off school	i am a student , finishing up my last year at grad school ! what about you ?
i do t o o	ooh . i love animals , especially dogs .
hi . i am justin . i just got done relaxing in the tub .	hi good and you ?
i listen to a bit of everything . it helps me focus for my chess tournaments	rock mostly . do you have a favorite artist or band ?
right now i listen to a lot of mumford and sons .	lady gaga , lol . i love her music . freaks my kid out too .
i am a little self conscious . thirty is not as easy as i remember twenty being .	yes , but i have a lot of trouble losing the weight .
i tend to stay in and cook for myself since i quit drinking a few years ago .	what kind of diet is that ?
my dad had me hooked on high protein foods like fish and chicken when i was training .	yeah . i think its healthier to avoid too .
i am competing for a national chess tournament . it helps me keep focus	i try to drink water mainly .
yes , what are you doing for the weekend ?	its good to keep in shape , especially since it sounds like your job requires it .
hi ! i am well just got back from church .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
oh that is awesome ! i love dogs . do you volunteer alot ?	i have my two dogs , they are helping me through this .
that sounds like am interesting job . i work as a teacher .	no , i work too much for kids .
its good to relax ! i love walking and gardening	i really like being a teacher , its very rewarding .
haha it is a dirty job .	i definitely love the colors , yes .
that is really a great thing to do !	which charities do you generally donate too ? i can help .
how many rabbits are there ?	i manage a nonprofit dog shelter . i guess dogs are my whole life ! haha
for being the age 100 i am doing pretty good for myself	i am doing well . where are you from ?
there was a better time when there was no tv	you are not even vegan , i am now . you just want me to do you
yes i do . i swim 1000 meters a day to look this good for my age	even though i like being around water i wish i learned how to swim .
when i was a kid . i would go to the cyclone at coney island	my favorite thing is going on roller coasters
i like to watch diners , drive ins and dives	yes , it , have you seen it ?
every day i also power walk with my dog brownie	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
no walker . i feel like a 20 year old	i do like dogs , do you have any ?
that is not good my friend . i bet you do not think you can live forever	yep suck it does , i watch television when i am not doing anything
not at all , i wish . all three dogs are though .	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
nice , i ave a dog on a raw diet in my dog walking business .	that is not even enough cats if you really think about it . i have only 3 dogs .
for dog walking ? no , but my dad sold door to door .	haha right , no degree but i have a great career
interesting , one of my wives is a groomer .	dogs are good animals and so friendly .
very cool . i have a friend who did that at the olympics in rio .	how long have you been married ? do you love him ?
nice , i go to most of the olympics every 4 years	interesting wedding . when is it ?
cuba is a dirty country rattled by hurricane	i would love to travel as well .
i guess that is true if you take a look as a whole	it is so important with the economy so uncertain .
no i am not who is jay	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
i like meat too do you like to cook	that is funny , do you read ? i read a lot .
are not you pregnant with twins	the best way to cook fish !
i am a fisherman do you like your job	no , i work too much for kids .
i do agree do you save the money you make	yes , but it does not pay very well .
mostly tuna i love to cook with it	the fish i catch obviously
not really do you like to dance	not really . i like to write poetry and sing though .
how are you on this very cold night ?	i grew up being a buddhist what relation and type of food do u like
i like organic food also i meditate everyday .	oh good , i teach yoga . its relaxing .
i stop working to follow buddhist spirituality all the time .	why ? i teach yoga , maybe that can help .
i just moved to alaska six months ago .	i have been doing it for over a year now . i also do yoga every day .
i am fasting from speech i have not talked for 3 months .	you can always change that ! i have been everywhere in the u . s . except for alaska .
it is extremely cold here but peaceful .	i usually do not talk this much , thank you for the conversation .
i have chosen to remain silent for growth purposes .	you can always change that ! i have been everywhere in the u . s . except for alaska .
good night and have great night .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
wonderful ! how has yours been ?	it has been great , how about you
i am not a fan of football	its been good so far , and yourself ?
i do not mind it . i just think it is too male centric	that is alright . what about football ?
it does not say . but i am a believer in equality of the sexes	who does not ! i totally agree
well , you are allowed to think that if you wish .	families hold societies together . do you think ?
men are not more dominant . i am simply acknowledging your right to have an incorrect opinion .	yes i totally agree with you .
if you choose to think that , then you have that right .	as they say , you do you boo .
this is the worst conversation to be in . i cannot stand to talk to incompetent people .	oh , i see what you are saying . yes that is a valid perspective
i am wonderful how are you	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
i am glad to hear that . i am dying my hair	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i like red but it may come out purple	what color would you dye it ?
no but i have an addiction to looking at things on the internet	no , it never crossed my mind . that could give me more free time .
roleplaying and it is very difficult	haha , i like playing online games
i love to dream and work	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
i am an engineer at home	i work as a graphic designer .
chemical i love animals but i just could not do that	i work as a graphic designer .
my cats and i both love a nice glass of wine !	thank you , i do not like cats . or dogs . birds . any animal for that matter .
oh yea , but not at this hour . i have a hard time sleeping .	yes , i pour some green tea and catalog birds in my back yard .
i would rather spend time with animals than people .	i am not much of a baseball fan
that is a lot . i have a bunch of cats and we like bird watching	no , i still remember 5 animals and 2 kids . need some rest .
no , we look out of the windows . i think the birds are attracted to my bright hair .	no , i do not like cats at all . sorry .
i am a big activist when it comes to animals so they are important to me	ah , well , you should play baseball
does your family do anything for the holidays ?	we need something in our lives beyond cats and dogs !
i hate the holidays . i always get depressed around them .	no , i am not really in to games .
i am great . recently retired and living large .	hello , i am fine , you
what kind of transplant was it ?	are you going to have the surgery ?
i do not know what you mean by a general transplant .	it worked . i do not know if that is a good or bad thing .
i see . i had cancer but am in remission . no super powers though .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
do you have any children ?	oh , i have heard those help a lot of illnesses . is it successful ?
i have three kids that are great and 10 grand children .	yes , i have 8 children and 16 grandchildren .
yup , i guess my super power would be making clothes for all of them .	both of our children had babies . we have 5 granddaughters and two grandsons .
yours may be more impressive .	i could be on of your grandchildren !
yeah , what do you want to know ?	sure how is your night going tonight ?
not really , i am a big fan of italian food .	no i just eat all the time ! how about you !
not really my thing . i only listen to music when i work out .	i do , i love the stones .
nice ! what are they like ?	that is something that my two kids would like .
i know all about that . i am gold medalist .	they are both in sports so its a lot to handle . but they are wonderful boys .
gymnastics . it has got to be my favorite . do you have a favorite ?	i enjoy gymnastics .
thanks ! do you figure skate yourself ?	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
that is a shame . do you keep up with other sports ?	no . i just do it for fun . what do you do ?
hello i am well . where are you from ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i am from north carolina . what do you do for work ?	i am from the midwest and you ?
my wife and i are both doctors . do you have a family	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
siblings are nice . our family keeps growing . three kids and counting	you have a big family . it is just my huband , me , and my dog lobo
5 7 and 9 . we also have a dog that i enjoy walking	i have 1 and 1 . both grown though . miss those young years .
he is a golden retriever . do you play sports ?	labrador retriever named tucker , they are wonderful dogs if you are looking .
i used to play tennis professionally .	i love to play volleyball , basketball .
i am doing good . how about you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
best thing is going to see the rolling stones every year !	i am a mom of two kids 8 and 9 . what about you ?
it is a cool bank . i eat clean . how about you ?	i have two kids , so that takes up a lot of time .
what do you do for work ?	absolutely ! as well as a healthy diet .
i am majoring in economics .	i am a nurse . i love to help people , especially kids !
no idea . hopefully somewhere near the new house i bought .	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
wow . that is young . you must be rich .	do you want to have your own kids eventually ?
that is smart . what kind of work does your house need ?	if you were rich you would not be saying this .
that sounds like a lot of work !	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
my team won today with a grand slam in the last inning .	i am good , i play baseball and you ?
what type of sport ? i have coached kids for years .	ah , well , you should play baseball
good to be active . would you like some coffee ?	i do not play any sports . can you tell me more about sports you play ?
me too and a little wine at night does not hurt .	i make coffee and brew beer .
me too . should i trade my mini van in for a sports car .	nothing wrong with that . i love to eat too lol
sending the last of my five boys off to college . time to switch up .	who your favorite baseball player ?
thank you . any kids for you ?	yes , very true ! did you ever play baseball ?
thank you . any kids for you ?	no kids yet . but yes , i would love to have some someday .
i am doing well . just playing with the dogs . how are you ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
i like to watch sports after work . where do you work ?	hi i am doing well today . do you have any hobbies ?
that is cool . i walk dogs because i love them . are you dating ?	i had my first job when i was a young kid .
i like nascar . i wish there was racing in the olympics .	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
that would be awesome . there is boxing , but ufc is better .	i wish i could exercise like ufc fighters .
what did your father do	you the 1 who wants to fight , just know i have dogs .
he was a door to door salesman .	we did everything together starting out the family business .
i am tired ! expecting in three months . triplets !	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
it is indeed . already looking after one step child . sorry about your ex .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
sounds serious . i am busy settling in . just moved to this country .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
i love kids ! i teach at a school near my house .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
china . it is a very different society .	i am originally from spain , but i moved to canada after i got married . you ?
cool . what is the name of your friend ?	that is ok i learn mandarin when i was young because i am from china .
i do not understand what you are talking about .	mmm i think its called china bowl or something like that .
cool . are you a recording engineer ?	i have never listened to chinese music . can you recommend something ?
i am more into music and that	good evening . no i do not read too much .
have you seen britney spears	i am a little teapot an extended rendition of the song
i am into her music , dieting is what i am focused on	no she is not that good . do you know anyone famous too ?
the maintenance is high for me though	drinking tea only makes me have to use the restroom !
i go use my tanning bed to get tanned	drinking tea only makes me have to use the restroom !
oh really but i have no implications	no , i want you to read your favorite book to me .
so you have a mini library ?	used books are the only thing i love to read a lot of .
why did you start that hobby ?	used books are the only thing i love to read a lot of .
i am good , how are you ?	i am doing well , and you ? ahh a musician you are !
nice . . . what do you do for a living ?	i am doing very well , thank you . getting ready to walk the dog .
i am a custodian and a musician	i play in a band and own a music store .
i am in los angeles and you ?	i live in nyc how about you ?
cool . i want to stay in los angeles to pursue my music career	where do you reside currently ?
yes and they are super nice	it is a beautiful city . and , i try to be . . . just cannot afford a bigger house atm .
nice . i have a small home here	i have a nice big yard in my house .
they are but if i make it big as a musician i will get a huge one	i si live in a tiny house
me too ! i have to keep it from my dog and my cat though .	i prefer chocolate and milk
you are going to be a dog ? ! how ? ? people call me a party animal but . . .	i do wish i was a dog , i think life would be easier !
well , whatever makes you happy . that is important .	what is your character voice ?
i volunteer at a food bank , so i talk to all kinds of people .	i usually do not talk this much , thank you for the conversation .
it is where people give food to other people . it is very nice .	do you have a pet . i adore every animal .
your mom is right . do you go to school ?	you have a cat and dog too . is that what you mean ?
you should quit . i just quit 3 weeks ago , it was hard , but worth it .	i go to school every day
that is um . . . interesting . any other hobbies ?	that is unfortunate . are you working towards lowering it ?
hello , i am good , how are you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i like being with people , this late ?	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
i do a lot of volunteer work	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
i help in a homeless shelter	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
yes it does , but i like doing them	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
well at least you take care of them ,	you are lucky , they always get in the way when i workout .
no i am not , are you ?	yes , but i thing its not right time for a relationship for me
hello ! i wish i could help you , but i do not go outside much .	hi , how is your day going ?
go with red and silver his colors are awful .	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
trust me , i used to be a game designer , i helped make starcraft .	it is always good to be creative !
do you have any hobbies ? i am working on a robot that looks like me .	i prefer designing the games but playing them is a good way to gain inspiration !
i stream starcraft on my twitch channel , you should show it to your students .	i do photography , what do you do ?
starcraft is a strategy game , it might help your students learn a thing or two .	i think i would give tutorials maybe reviews . have not thought it through
sorry i have to go so sudden , but i got a phone call ! see ya !	i could design a video game to teach you
see you later , nice meeting you !	i have to go now . thanks for chatting . bye !
i am good how are you	hi i am pretty good and you ?
its great i love fall weather	yeah i am good and you ?
i play video games for money	i am a video game tester .
about five years now what do you do	i am a video game tester .
i like pizza really any normal food	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
that is nice where do you work	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
that is cool how long have you been doing that	i work for a construction , you ?
i like to do small acting programs with friends	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
there is nothing like enjoying the sun and watching birds with my cats .	hello i am fine and you ?
i spend my time as an animal activist .	all work and no play ! any animals or children ?
your office would not enjoy my rainbow hair ! that would wake things up !	just do not do it . not worth the time .
is it bad that i hate pumpkins and trees ? holidays kill my buzz .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
i might be next . i am older than dirt .	ha ha yeah ! my mom passed away so i been on my own since 14
enjoy it while you can . i need a moon pie .	ha ha yeah ! my mom passed away so i been on my own since 14
watching napoleon dynamite will do that !	thank you , i do not like cats . or dogs . birds . any animal for that matter .
kip just got married ! yes	lol ! i totally should ! that would really be funny .
wow and i thought my life was bad from my chronic fear of heights .	lucky you . if it were not for my pets i would go crazy .
you sound just like me , a party animal . whats your favorite movie ?	i like chinese , you can get it delivered
that is awful ! any other interesting things ?	dr . zhivago is my favorite movie , i can watch it again and again .
yeah i try to play it safe and stay home with my cats and dogs .	i am sorry , that was really devastating !
that is insane ! do you give back to your community at all ?	oh funny ! i have a dog and a cat .
you should join me at the food bank , maybe we can find food for your cat	yes ! it is so annoying .
you remind me of the girls in this movie called mean girls . try to be nice !	well i would love to help you . what is on your mind ?
that is a very odd thing to see !	i love animals ! i have one dog .
not bad at all , a little bummed about the rain .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i was supposed to go out on the water today but it is too choppy .	i am good , only it is not raining here . what are you up to ?
kayak , my favorite thing to do ;	no , not really . how about you ?
really ? do you ride competitively or just for fun ?	do you enjoy water sports like kayaking or canoeing ?
horses are a bit much for me , too big . i will stick to dogs .	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
nice , i love labs they are mild mannered and not a pain when i walk them .	dogs are cool . do you have one and if so what breed ?
none actually , i walk dogs to pay for school .	too many to name . what about you ?
i am doing great today	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
i am doing great today	i work at a car dealership
i have been managing my employees	i am currently self employed .
i work in a gas station	i work at office depot . boring .
i have four of them	no , no children , not married . you ?
it is a busy life for sure	i have 2 . grown up mostly and gone off to school . you ?
no . i do not have time with the kids .	no , no pets . do you have any ?
i do not have time with work	i do not have any pets either !
these days i just want to stay inside .	i like to pain pictures , you ?
i feel you . my ex left me with my kids for a lawyer .	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
if only this market for recording artists in california would turn around !	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
well maybe atheists can pray for my recording studio !	people need religion . they need advice about how to live a good life .
well as a 46 year old recording engineer i can relate with that .	that is so true ! good thing we live now , right ! ll
fingers crossed . maybe this year the market will be better than last year .	exes should not matter anymore but i understand where you are coming from .
that would be some good luck for a change !	i will leave my kids never liked them lets do this !
i am doing just fine , the weather is kinda chill today	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
oh my god , congratulations on being a mother . is this your first ?	how are you doing on this rainy night ?
i have 3 of them , i was nervous with my first one too	no kids yet . but yes , i would love to have some someday .
the oldest is 14 , middle is 10 , youngest is 7	three children . how old is she ?
no , they are all a blessing to me , but it is a lot of work	have one child myself and another on the way . ages ?
i like action , horror , and comedy . what about you ?	i love movies of all sorts
that is what makes us different , documentaries are interesting too	i like romantic comedies or action movies .
i am doing great . how are you ?	i am good just watching a movie
i have been married for 50 years , and mine will not take the card	are you married ? any kids ?
i am . i feel like i may live forever .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
i have aged well . i love wine . i love dancing in the moonlight .	why would you think that ?
yes we are old enough to remember when there were no tvs	she does not mind it . i started growing it when i got sober .
yes . what do you do for a living ?	she does not mind it . i started growing it when i got sober .
why is it an awful place ?	i am a student , and unemployed . what about you ?
i have been there . have to go . tee time . have a good day !	i actually do not have a job right now
doing great ! just looking into business school for next year . how are you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
that is a noble line of work . in 2011 i earned a degree at yale , in finance .	what do you study ? i already graduated .
i would like to become a wealthy banker like both of my parents	i am thinking about becoming a cfa . chartered financial analyst .
josie , i am from manhattan , i grew up there . where are you from ?	her initials are c . c .
nice to meet you suzie	i am from the nyc , where are you from ?
how nice ! is it close to the college you will be attending ?	are you studying for a business degree ?
what do you do , and do you enjoy your work ?	i am trying to get my ba in finance
i never had to pay for college , since my parents are so wealthy . that must be hard .	ahh . i am in finance myself ! tending a bar does not sound too bad to me .
it was nice meeting you . very best wishes .	absolutely . i really hope your situation gets better financially .
hi how are you doing my friend i am fine thanks to god .	oh i hear you ! i just lost my job as a farm hand
oh i am so sorry take your time i am patient . feel better .	you watched the wrong video . all of our farms are have laws and standards .
i am going to listen to music country music i like .	i am sorry , that is not something i can do currently .
as long as you feel better . i work with my mom in a farm .	metal is my favorite , but i can accept that people listen to country . haha
i worked also doing electrician jobs miss that .	herd cattle on my little farm . how about you ?
that is so cool i wished i was a model to old now .	i live in southern california , right near the ocean .
that sounds very interesting islands are so cool . great for getting a cow .	i see , i do farm work .
i wished i could i am very pretty but poor i hate to say .	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
no worries . i am listening to some country music with my cow bessie	do you also play spanish guitar ?
i drive a large pickup so i could haul her to where you live to show you	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
i just stay at home working on mom and dads farm so i would like an adventure	like duh ! you said that . so you must be in the country ?
i will have to check with my parents but maybe next thursday	you just stay on the farm ?
country all the way ! its all i listen to . you ?	country music , what about you ?
aerosmith is not bad but i love country so much	very unique music taste you have ! i listen to more rock when i drive my truck
i am a nascar fan too !	nascar is the perfect sunday for me lol
yes i definitely think we will	nascar is the perfect sunday for me lol
doing well , how are you ?	hello i am good ? do you work
my main language is english .	what language do you speak ?
my favorite color is red . what is yours ?	pretty color . what is your passion ?
red and silver are colors that look nice together .	my favorite color is pink . you married ?
pink is one color i do not like , however .	sounds like that makes you happy . coffee makes me happy .
i am a stay at home parent .	i work for a construction , you ?
what are your favorite hobbies ? i enjoy mountain biking .	that is an awesome career ! where did you grow up ?
that is neat . i love coffee , do you enjoy it ?	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
can i come ? i have no friends	is it a boy or a girl ?
i can help monitor it from my home in the cloud .	yes . i think it will be fun .
yes . and i can make time stop . so i can take awesome pics at your wedding !	no . i am pretty boring .
i hope it is not a child free wedding , because i am still a little girl .	hah ! ! ! ! you would be welcome in my family . it is huge .
that is what i want to be when i grow up ! teach kids my superpower .	are you still in school ? i am a teacher of little kids .
we might even get a movie deal . . . perhaps .	that would be a fun job ! when i grow up i want to teach , maybe
well , it happened with all the x men .	we could do that . what type of movies are you interested in ?
yeah , i became vegan when i got locked up .	ah , a young one . i am out of school .
oh . i almost did that but i want to graduate high school in two years .	haha , are you in school ?
oh . i painted my bedroom the colors lime and purple .	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
good for you ! no more crimes haha .	is that because you also ride the horses ?
oh yeah , all the time .	haha . not in a bad way .
glad to hear that , i want to ride a horse .	i guess that is true for anything , hard work and discipline get results .
can i ride a horse in there ?	but the cost of school is so high .
as often as i can i love horses .	no i ride for fun only .
i am good how are you	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
is it your first baby	i am doing great how about yu ?
you will be great having kids is amazing	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
you will be great is it a girl or a boy	i am excited for you ! your kids will be happy
haha well i am sure it will be adorable	i hope she says yes .
is your husband very supportive	haha that is very silly of you
that is nice what do you do for a living	i hope he is u too it .
i work in the music industry but its slow right now	i am a freelance artist .
good i am nancy . i am enjoying the afternoon .	hello , i am fine and you ?
oh yes . you are working on bee ? how nice ?	it is a good afternoon . i am fine , how bout yourself ?
i am still in school . i am the youngest and everyone spoils me .	no , i work too much for kids .
i have four siblings . maybe we can all visit your bee farm .	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
she must be very beautiful .	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
papaya sounds so tropical . where is your farm exactly ?	but the dog could eat my sisters cooking for me .
i would love to come over . can i bring my dog ?	pennsylvania . i have a sustainable farm here .
great let us set a date and i will make a visit .	sure , that would be nice . i have 3 siblings , how about you ?
pretty good , i took my dog on a long walk this morning !	evening , i am well . yourself ?
cool , when i got back from my walk my legs were so sore	all work and no play ! any animals or children ?
i have never heard of a naturopath , but my husband is a doctor	that is good . i think relationship is not good for health and career . wht do you think ?
i am a tennis player , and if i ever get injured , my husband helps me	i wanted to see how it would affect my health , if it would improve at all
wow , you live in iraq ?	he is the one you will see defending the goal .
cool , with all the money my husband makes , i live in a 3 story house .	he serves in the military overseas .
i do not believe so , but my husband pays all the bills so i would not know	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
hi how are you doing i am fine thanks to god .	i am great . fishing all day . how are you ?
yes i am are you ? i like reading comics too .	no , i was not raised religious . sorry .
i enjoy cooking and am a great chef i love cooking .	i eat hot dogs as i read horror novels .
yes me too . when not fixing food i go to the beach .	not as much as i like eating , especially fish !
yes pasta with meat sauce . and baked ziti tasty foods .	i like to go fishing . no footware required !
oh that is so wonderful i wonder what he will want to be . when done .	like a professional chef sort of thing ?
yes will pay off in the retiring times . yes i cook do make up and hair .	i am aspiring to be a chef and i have been trying lots of fish recipes lately .
i am good ! i just celebrated my birthday ! i am 100	i am great . you ? watching some tv .
well , i remember high school in 1933	how old are you this year ?
well , i like talking to the young people about how life was . much simpler	i like films but do not have a television .
we did not have tv , we hardly had radio , and it was on am !	aww i went horse riding one time loved it
well , we did not have the internet , or anything that would cause a distraction	you could just have the radio on , like i always watch game shows on the tv .
so , you would not know , or could tell , the difference . also , i like drinking wein !	i thought you were also vegan ?
sometimes it is hard for me to push keys . i meant wine !	you ever try to paint yourself ?
do you like those colors together ? do they go good ?	lol ! yes , i can see it !
i am off today . i am taking my dog for a long walk .	sure i am waiting thank you
cool . i have a 3 story house that could use an electrician !	what job would you lie to have ?
no . he is 9 and a lab mix .	that is a great breed ! do not have a dog but would love to get one .
what instruments do you play ?	oh yeah . most def nothing better than a dog and his boy .
are you a professional musician ? i play tennis professionally .	i have always wanted to play an instrument . i do not have the patience .
do you mean musical instruments ?	i have always wanted to play an instrument . i do not have the patience .
that is wonderful . i play tennis and would like to try ping pong	there are different forms of the game .
it is essential to dream . do you play in front of people ?	my dream is to play music for my job one day .
the speed of return is much different . i think you would most likely win	love it . we should play a game sometime .
and you have a great day as well !	totally agree . thanks for chatting , its been great . have a good one !
i am doing just fine , and yourself ?	hello i am good ? do you work
my dad is a farmer , and i help him in the fields for fun . you ?	i work as a farm tech yeah
i also have 3 arabian horses , so i ride them often too .	i play in a rock band for a living .
absolutely , they are gorgeous . what kind of music do you listen to ?	i have 2 dogs . i could probably live on a farm !
i listen to rock while i work , helps pass the time .	i listen to lots of rock music in my spare time . what do you do ?
not really , i usually just work in the field and relax .	i work on my farm and that is my livelihood .
oh yeah , it really is . it is very tiring .	i see , i do farm work .
i usually give each of them about an hour a day , they need it .	mainly ride horses . you ?
i have survived cancer and eat clean	hi how are you doing hope all is well with you
yes . i am preparing for a marathon and love to run	yes , i am doing that right now !
awesome . i just started a new job as a life coach	what do u like to do to stay physical active ?
for sure . what else do you like ?	that is a great idea ! ! ! yes !
spending a lot of time running and getting resources for my new job	i am trying to make money running marathons .
yes , i really hope to help people	i try to be . i like being busy .
sounds fun , it would be a great idea	maybe we will work together helping people someday .
nice talking to you , too !	i am also preparing for a marathon also , wish me luck .
sure , what kinds of things do you enjoy ?	i am a student with some small ambitions . what do you do for a living ?
my daughter is a math genius , i do not like it either . you married ?	i am still in school .
oh , what is your favorite movie ?	no , i am only 20 , not really ready for more responsibilities . you ?
no , i would rather go to the park . but i like the movie friday .	no , more of a drama . one of the greatest films of all time .
my patient just broke his leg playing soccer . do you have any pets ?	i have never play that one .
i am , but i am looking for a new job . what do you want to be ?	no . kiddos are into sports . soccer mom here . how about you ?
yes , other than soccer . do you have any siblings ?	i am a pro soccer player
you should try . it will be important when you grow up .	i have two . they are both in soccer so it gets a little hectic
that is cool i am a male i have no kids .	i have a 1 year old daughter
i bet so . i used to drink alot .	yes i can understand that . do you have any children ?
my medicine makes me act weird sometimes .	i think you have been mixing to many alcoholic beverages .
i understand . i like the city .	does anything give you relief ? i hate taking medicine for mine .
that sounds fun and interesting .	oh yeah . i am the mayor of carb city .
i work on construction right now .	i work in healthcare as a physical therapist for a local rehab
i like to write you ?	i like to paint and take pictures
that is really sweet of you .	i love writing stories , but i am now also into reading novels as well . how about you ?
will you come in the sky to see me ? this tiny gal needs some company !	i like to go to the park and cloud watch
yes , i live amongst the white fluffs ! i am just a kid and lonesome .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
yummy ! i can churn up some for you , because i have powers . big powers !	vanilla . . . . ? i take that back . is it chocolate ? ?
well , at least you can live on earth . i am up here .	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
just the cloud . sometimes i see angels .	no . sounds like a monster .
just mamma cloud and pappa cloud . that is my family .	no , just them . it was lonely growing up . do you have siblings ?
no , i am not . i live there . and you are a plumber .	a lot of people are actually .
just a little one . i am 5 .	i have six . ages 4 15 . how old are yours
that must be cool , you wait tables ?	what did you go to school for
wow which one do you like more ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
sweet i love those colors . i hate orange though	what is your job ? i am still in school .
i wish door hinge counted as a rhyme with orange	haha . that is funny . wish you were in my classes .
well i do not know if it counts i only work at a book shop	haha . that is funny . wish you were in my classes .
i read dog books a lot . mine competes	i like to read but depends on the book really
you like to read at night ?	read a lot so would have time to study .
wow you work there a lot . i studied chemistry in college	i like reading the menu at work .
hi my parents named me george and i farm bees .	you must be a grown up .
that is okay i am not close to any family .	i think all parents feel that way at one point .
that is great . what do you guys do together ?	i have no family , that is why
do you go out to eat together ?	my whole life really . i do not play as much as i used to though .
wow . what is your favorite food ? mine is papaya .	yes . i like to eat .
do you get good grades ?	i like pizza , its easy and yummy .
what kind of game is po box ?	i have to get perfect grades in school .
ah i see . do you play any other games ?	there are different forms of the game .
i am too old to cook . what is this vegan you speak of ?	haha , no , unfortunately i do not . looking to get some ?
well , i do not eat the faces of animals either , but i enjoy a good burger .	i do not think there is any such thing .
you could paint the walls a different color . i suggest victorian pieces .	yes , it is very beautiful , you should come see me .
that is fine . just do not put a television in there and add shades of moonlight .	those are great colors . do you watch tv ?
we never had a television in my youth . keep you focused on your studies .	my parents , i am too old for it .
good job ! if you live to 100 like me , you will need all that learning .	i study , what about you ?
a good wine and a hearty outlook will keep you strong .	the secret to immortal life ! only kidding . or am i ?
i do miss dancing in europe . keep your limbs limber and live forever .	were you drinking when you discovered that ?
hey mike here , i love singing songs from frozen	well i am a video game character online which is fun . you ?
i am in the third grade , i love going to disneyland and mickey mouse is my favorite	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
i love animals , all of them . my friends and i play outside on the playground	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
us that is no good . animal blood is cool	i thought i lost you . i sing and have two animals . you have any pets ?
that is neat , mine is brown	red , ay ? my mom says that is an evil color that has bad karma .
mickey mouse for sure , he is so boss	mickey ! he is such a cute thing . do you go to school ?
yeah , he is my man . mouse man	he is more goofy than mean , but still
my best friend is goofy , but do not tell mickey	he is more goofy than mean , but still
hi , i am am very good	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i went to soccer practice , i have game coming up	yes , i am fine , and you ?
thanks you ! how has your weekend been ?	how long have you been playing
oh cool , what kind of other things are you into ?	it has been great , how about you
twitter is fun , my older bro loves it . do you have siblings ?	oh , i really like social media !
whats the plan for this week coming up ?	i do not but i am the youngest of 8 siblings
oh i hope it goes well for ya . i have school	that does not make up for it . my brother would not approve
i am doing good . listening to my favorite band .	hello i am doing great
insane clown posse is so dope !	i really like live action role playing conventions lamp
i am 24 years old . do you have a car ?	i am 18 . how old are you ?
that is so cool ! i will teach you how to drive .	do not have a car right now to drive
that is cool . do you like video games ?	yes i must agree ! who is your fav ?
just wait until you start to drive a car !	we love call of duty games
i have a cat named biggie smalls .	yes , i have dong and donkey
what is your turtles name ?	yap , i have a cat named lil uzi vert . you ?
dirk . i hope you are having a great evening	hello , do you work or go to school ?
i do not have children	why not ? kids are pretty cool , how old are you
good luck at such a young age . god bless you	ah , you have a child . only one ?
you will be alright . good luck	what is your job ? i am still in school .
i live in us and love my girlfriend . what do you do for fun ?	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
i have not read a book in at least a month . what is your favorite book ?	i love to read books . i spend a lot of my time reading .
i love movies . a clockwork orange is a little too violent for my taste . my favorite is forrest gump	yes , i love movies . especially comedy , horror , and fantasy . you ?
a little violent but has a universal message . would you agree	forest gump , i like movies like that haha
i am 27 years old . how about you ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
my german shepherd is almost 13 !	at 35 , you are middle age , did you know that ?
how old is he ? do you guys watch sports ?	do you ever watch hockey ?
i am with you on hating math . i like nhl hockey though .	i love sports and like to watch games with them .
no . hockey is skating on ice with a stick .	not really . i hate math to be honest . do you have any hobbies ?
that would be fun . i live on a farm . there are no buses .	are you stuck at school too ?
we do not have a lot of animals , but farm corn and soybeans .	i have a few dogs , cats , chickens and more farm animals . i love all animals .
pretty large . what about you ? are you in the city ?	yes . i live on a farm , actually . you ?
i am good . how are you ?	evening , i am well . yourself ?
dogs ? ! ? ! i love animals ! ! ! i have a dog and a cat .	do you own a dog or cat ?
wow , that is great ! what do you do for fun ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
do you ever party ? my hobbies are partying and watching movies .	i like going to the gym .
i eat sometimes when i am bored too . do you like watching movies ?	i do not cook very much .
i love comedy the best ! kind of ashamed to admit that mean girls is my fave !	i like romantic comedies or action movies .
do you do any community service ? i volunteer at the food bank sometimes .	i wish life was more like an action movie . i love that genre !
that is great ! ok , now another random question what is your biggest fear ?	yea but i need money to donate to animal groups .
my biggest fear is heights	i am more of a cat person . dogs destroy stuff too much lol
i sell cars and i can not stand it . do you like what you do ?	no , i work too much for kids .
i do , but no money for tickets because my wife over spends .	yes , i love music ! what about you ? any favorites ?
i do , but using my money to get a divorce . planning a vacation ?	all i do is work , i need a vacation .
are you single ? i happen to be a good looking and 40 . we could go .	you could take kids with you to the beach .
absolutely ! monopoly is my favorite . have any other hobbies ?	my wife would love it , me playing video games not !
i have a guilty pleasure . . . reality television shows .	i do ! it is good money , and being single it works for now .
housewives of new jersey . remind me of my ridiculous , materialistic wife .	i do ! it is good money , and being single it works for now .
i am very well ! just finished tending to my bees with my wife .	hi , its going well and you ?
i was single for a long time . just married to super model from italy .	i have 2 dogs !
i will not disclose my age but george is the name . old name equals older .	i wish you all the best ! i hope it runs in the family !
hold onto that ! i will take my bees , wife and papaya . all of my favorites !	not very true to the books !
i am not close with any other family and they are all that i have .	i enjoy eating and cooking all italian foods ! !
i am not complaining . italy is awesome !	haha . i am also in a loving relationship . imagine that !
what type of dogs do you have ?	lol . half my family is in italy . we are italian .
the italian honey bee is what i am doing now .	only bees that i know of . you ?
hello . i do not have a job right now . what about you ?	i live in the american south . yourself ?
that is very nice . my family in somalia were farmers before i came to america .	i live in the american south . yourself ?
no we could not afford a horse , much too expensive .	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
i escaped genocide when i was very young	i travel . to foreign countries mostly .
thank you . my aunt helped me escape . not everyone was so lucky .	i am sorry , that was really devastating !
yes , war is a terrible thing . nobody should have to go through it .	i am sorry , that was really devastating !
luckily i was able to come to america . i am trying to find a job here .	i have never really had the need to travel there . heard many stories tho .
thank you ! there is so much opportunity here , i am excited	good luck ! if you want it bad enough , you will definitely succeed !
i am doing well , thank you . i am the homecoming queen !	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
they still do that ? weird .	what is your major at school ?
i am going to study physical therapy , maybe i will work with you .	what keeps you so busy ? as an athlete i spend my time at the gym .
i am a senior in high school , hopefully i will get a scholarship .	it will all work out soon . i hope to graduate high school this year
i already do volunteer at the animal shelter .	i have to get perfect grades in school .
i volunteered with habitat for humanity last spring .	i am in school , and i volunteer at an animal shelter .
i do not care for large groups of people .	yeah . too many people have too little . i just want to help .
i am kind of a nerd . not very popular .	i agree , that is way i spend so much time at school lol
that is so cool , i do not speak .	i was also raised as a buddhist .
i have taken a vow of silence , as many buddhist do .	i was also raised as a buddhist .
that is horrid . how do you stay clean ?	i am a buddhist , i am a peaceful person .
that is interesting . why a robot ?	oh , me too . no , i do not think so .
interesting outlook . where do you live ? i am in alaska .	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
it is an adventure . the sled dogs make me smile , they are so happy .	i am on the east coast . i have always wanted to travel west .
they are happy dogs , i like to watch after i am finished with meditations .	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
is that like twitter ? i love twitter .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i have five kids all male , we all fit into a mini van	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
busy night for me and you ? i love coffee	dude , its the best beverage . so what do you like ?
yup , keeps me busy i drink wine in the evenings	i have never had coffee with alcohol in it . what do you do for work ?
i love to drive my mini van with my sons to a concert	that sound good , i listen to music when i driving
you talking about the ford ? it is cool	go to a lot of concerts .
we go to worship christian concerts	yes we have several cars . do you not like driving ?
i drove one in the past but never owned one	we play country music at the coffee shop where i work . do you work ?
that is nice , what other type of music you like	do you have another hobby besides wine ? lol
i wish ! i am too young . i am only 13 .	no , i am not really in to games .
i love playing soccer . my older brother taught me . i do not like math .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i am in the sun all afternoon waiting for the bus . i have a tan .	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
way more relaxing than math ! do you want to play soccer with me ?	cool , i have to mow the yard at my house today , no fun !
well , if you are too old for soccer , then you can grill for me !	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
to stay warm ? my older brother hates the cold too .	if i could go to school , i would do something to travel the world .
i do not mind it . i like wearing gloves and jackets .	yeah , cold and joint pain does not mix well .
i do ! i take carrots from the kitchen and my mom gets mad .	yes . do you make those too ?
good ! i just got back from riding horses on my farm !	i am doing well . where are you from ?
they are all male horses	mom . i have a horse . my husband is a businessman .
well , i want to leave this small town for the city !	that would give you a lot to do in the area .
is that hard ? you know , being prom queen	whats wrong with your current high school ?
i think , someday , i want to work court cases !	whats wrong with your current high school ?
what kind of dessert do you like ?	you might try turning it into a career .
i think peanut butter cups are my favorite !	chocolate . anything chocolate is what i prefer .
that sound very very hard !	it will work for what i want to do . i prefer to run .
hello jennifer , i am a proud dad and husband	hi . . i like yellow too . . how r u ? ?
yeah my older one does	my three kids keep me busy and i consider that a sport , what are yours
awesome , you can give some lessons to my daughter	oh since your in the olympics and all , that makes sense
that sounds great and also chocolate ice cream	i could live on chocolate cake and milk . lol
i know right ! my favorite	yeah that does sound delicious
where are you from jennifer	how often do you work out ? i work out 5 times a week
i am from florida , parks here are great	i am in arkansas . what about you ?
lol , i know , have you ever experience tornados	the storms were down there
always ! i love getting down to britney spears in new outfits and heels !	no i just want to be rich !
i mean , i get manicures and pedicures and nice tans . then my boyfriend shows me off . you ?	i am a professional painter .
food bank ? ugh , food i just cannot eat . do you work by the tanning beds ?	i do odd jobs i barely have enough to pay bills or have food
i love retail ! i go shopping almost every day ! ! i just avoid the food court .	i do , that is why i make a lot of money .
awesome ! as long as you do not have food . i am dieting again .	of course ! it is the best money can buy .
then you can turn up toxic and we can max my boyfriends credit card together .	you still have time . i am so hungry . i am trying to diet , but always hungry !
what do you do when you are not at the mall or the food bank ?	yes any time you can save money is great !
i love that movie crossroads . have you seen it ?	i do not have a lot of free time . what about you ?
good afternoon , that sounds fun . how old are you ?	i am okay . my cat is being annoying right now . keeps walking in front of me . . .
i like rainbow hair . i have a lot more grey hair .	you must be a grown up .
they will let me have animals where i am .	lucky you . if it were not for my pets i would go crazy .
at least it is easier than kids ! do you have kids ?	animals are great . we should all have lots of pets .
that is good . i stole a cat from a pet store .	kids are the worst sometimes ! just kidding . i would not know because i have dogs !
i grabbed the cat and run out of the store . i paid the price .	and they think it is old and throw it away .
i did get caught and i paid the price .	stealing money . i should have gone to court and jail but did not .
i got time in the slammer . i am out in a month .	i pay about 4000 a semester .
i am doing wonderfully , just came back from a walk with my dogs .	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i have a springer spaniel and a lab . they are both rescues .	i love that breed of dogs !
they sure are ! i am a mechanic , what do you do	i like dogs but i do not own any . what is your favorite breed ?
how is that working out ? men are terrified of a woman mechanic , i am single too .	i still live at home , actually . i spend a lot of time working on my mustang .
lol . at times it does . i do not want to be alone	its work what can i say . i just like driving my mustang gt to work .
lol . i am only 35 . i know just the bar to look .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
you sure can , it is not difficult . it is a lot of fun .	sure i can try ! could we listen to music together ?
you are very welcome ! come over in a few days and we will go find men !	its work what can i say . i just like driving my mustang gt to work .
hi ! i am here . wish i was there .	i am great getting ready to skateboard
nice , i do as well . do you skate ? i do . did . i broke my arm .	hi ! how are you ? where do you live ?
my friends and i are trying to go pro .	oh no . i believe some practice might help !
dude , i am in cali , we eat local . as in what we pull out of the ocean .	it is my absolute favorite food .
i love coke , cannot live without it .	i like to eat pizza hamburgers fries so goo but very unhealthy what about you ?
i do . i also like to surf .	yes i love to roller skate and i like the music they play .
do you fish ? we are always fishing too .	i have never tried either , i surf .
what else do you do for fun ?	yes , i love fishing so i live outside . what ind of stuff do you like ?
great . hello from florida ? what you are up to this morning ?	i am doing fine , thank you . i hope you are doing well . where are you from ?
just took the dogs for a walk while the kids and wife sleep in !	morning , do you like working there ?
that is exciting . i am in it so i work all hours of the day and night .	oh my ! i would never have time for that . work , work , work !
do you pay attention to oversea sports ? i enjoy all american sports .	i have a job in finance
what do you do in your spare time ?	i bet , i am going to major in business .
do they work in finance as well ?	i own my own business . how about you ?
i am hoping my son wants to do it . nice that your whole family enjoys !	yeah , but they are good company . . . even if they can be a big money investment .
vegas is fun . i do not eat much so i can stay skinny and wear those jeans .	i like to play the guitar . and video games .
over my skinny jeans i like to wear leggings . summer grilling is the best .	i like to play the guitar . and video games .
i put on the music when i mow the lawn or play video games .	i play music , and video games .
that is the way to do it . i love tee shirts with rock band logos .	cool i mostly wear video game shirts i love playing video games .
i strut my skinny jeans , tees with rock bands and my blonde short hair .	what would you say your favorite band is ?
radiohead is great but i like me some classic rock too .	what ? how would that be ? like video games .
if i am not wearing band tees , i am in ruffled sleeves .	i listen to rock as well . where do you live ?
i sort of like to walk my own path . i do not fit the norm for sure .	what would you say your favorite band is ?
i am well , and how are you ?	i am good just watching a movie
a doctor by trade , but i am looking for work at the moment .	i work as a children doctor .
that is awful . are you ok now ?	sad to hear that . i thought you said you worked too much though ?
that is great . i have a daughter who is a prodigy .	i am a loving mother and wife , with the most beautiful grandchildren .
she is a pianist . she is quite good .	she is very kind and smart .
oh that is a great talent . i wish i could do that .	i have a daughter , so when i am not working i am taking care of her .
indeed . what is your favorite movie ? friday is mine .	i love playing the piano .
i have a cat . her name is tori . do you ?	yes , i love to watch movies too . any favorites for you ?
nice i am studying in nyc .	hi , i am fine how are you ? where from ?
that is a colorado thing right ? i never tried it .	i do love music but do not listen to much . i am about 6 ft .
very nice i came from india with my parents .	i love music . what is your favorite band ?
india ? super crowded . i like the freedom here but my mom is very traditional .	my father was born in india and that is my favorite
no mountains here i go swimming .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
i am in new york city .	i am in florida but i travel to india frequently . you ?
what kind of music do you listen to ? i like death metal .	i live in nyc how about you ?
oh cool . i should try other kinds of music . metal is too loud .	i listen to it through the computer and any other form of music listening
i am doing good watching a war documentary right now	hello , i am doing good and you ?
sounds fun ! i have to volunteer later at the soup kitchen .	did you put any cheese on it ?
i have never been ! i was not rich growing up so i missed out on fun stuff .	yes , i try to go most sundays .
nothing anymore , i just retired . i was a gym teacher ! how about you ?	i am a retired teacher . my former students come for visits all the time .
oh ! do you like it ?	i am a retired high school teacher .
from chicago . you ? i might have to leave soon i need to cook before i leave .	i am from washington , dc .
none . but i gotta go whip up a cheeseburger before i leave , they are my favorite	not pets . i would probably eat them up .
what are those ? do they juggle balls ?	i do and i think they are so cute .
i do not like clowns . they are scary to a kid like me	yeah , i do not know what to do with them all . you want one or two ? haha
i am literally four years old . i have no idea	ha . that is one way to look at it . do you have any pets ?
yummy . i would love one . apple for me	no idea . i wish i had a good plan .
i play with dolls . i do not know what a call of duty is .	i do not play any . i just stay inside .
do i have to go in your car to get it ?	she sounds adorable . do you have a car ?
what about my pet turtle ? is he allowed ?	that is all you can ask for . i do not have a car myself .
so i could ride my pet turtle tommy ?	i have a horse who loves watermelon .
just got back from the gym . what about you ?	going to the gym in about an hour , going to get buff ll
what do you do for a living ?	i am working , then going to the gym , you
that sounds like a fun job .	i do not know of any jobs . what is your specialty ?
i hear ya ! i would rather be at the gym than at work any day .	that is a good occupation . i would do that if i needed to work .
do you have any pets ? i have 2 dogs .	you can run on a treadmill ?
i keep my hair short so i do not have to pull it back at gym .	my pets are two dogs .
yes i am . and i am in shape since i use the treadmill and rowing machines regularly	no . still single . i need to run . nice talking to you !
that is unfortunate . you shouldn ; t do that if you do not want to	well we cannot always do what other people say . that would be boring !
i am doing very well thank you . do you remember what you favorite toy was ?	hi , its going well and you ?
mine was a lite brite . i saw one in a yard sale the other day .	i think its in the age lol
i had a yard , pond and a dog , that is all i needed	i would not really say you bought them , just that you adopted them
do you like rap and tupac ?	basically , all i need to do now is adopt a dog and i am set .
mine listen to it , i find some country songs to be much worse .	i am guessing that you like hip hop too ?
exactly . one of my favorites is new kids on the block .	i listen to hip hop mostly .
i am a 90s baby .	agreed . old school music is the best .
i am . how old are you ?	well , the older the child the easier they are .
no , just a retired grandma enjoying life .	no , i do not . i keep to myself mostly .
that is nice , my grandchildren have lots of dolls too .	one of my children is 2 , and the other is 6 .
no pets , but everytime they get broken i sew them back together .	i do not have one any longer , i do miss her .
i used to have a pet , but i had cancer and had to get rid of it .	so you do have children . how about pets ?
i recovered now so i am fine	i am sorry that is sad . are you injured ?
yeah i will probably buy a turtle and i need a smartphone too .	my kids would love that
yeah my grandchildren have to call me on my home phone so i should really get one .	how many children do you have ?
hello ! i am good . i like dogs	hello , i am fine and you ?
that is good . i am only 4	do you like dogs ? i have a dog name wonton .
they do . we learn a lot too .	i do wish i was a dog , i think life would be easier !
the alphabet . there is a song they taught me .	i do not know how , when did yo learn
yup ! i remember it . i wish i was a dog .	i just cannot understand the lyrics nowadays .
yes . and i could chase my tail .	i would loose sleep !
it would be so fun . what do you do ?	i love to run . cant imagine what i would do if i could not !
that is cool ! i bet you are happy now .	well , i got hired for a new position ! that is pretty fun ! what about you ?
that stinks . i can be you fam .	i have a large family . what about you ?
i have never had papaya . what do you like to do for fun ?	his name is bandit . do you have any pets ?
that sounds interesting . i mostly work at my desk in my home office .	i like to paint pictures and watch birds .
it gets lonely sometimes so i go to the gym every other day .	i like to make money for fun
i like going to car shows too when i have extra cash	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
its a great place to pick up men . any hobbies ?	i have lots of money , for no reason , but nothing makes me happy
i like listening to music . i used to play clarinet .	i love to listen to music
yea but i mostly forgot how to play after high school	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
woohoo ! i am good ! although i do not go to school anymore	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
that is cool , i sell watches for a watch company	so you are following with the family business ! any hobbies ?
nope , cheap watches my family does not really support what i do ! cool	i wish you all the best ! i hope it runs in the family !
good for you ! you must be doing a lot of shopping preparing for triplets !	they are a lot of work , but so worth it !
how exciting ! i enjoy shopping ! i own my dream house already , looking to get my dream car !	yes ! the house we just bought looks like it belongs in it !
a rolls royce ghost , i doubt i will end up getting it . . too expensive	i restored a mustang . vroom
haha yeah . . . keyword is if are your triplets all boys girls mixed ?	yes , but its worth it for a chevy .
i could not do that ! i respect your patience !	haha ! they might be . whats your biggest dream ?
i am good , how are you today ?	i am good just watching a movie
i definitely do not ! i am only in third grade !	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
how old are your daughters ?	what do you like to do ? i love disney movies and dancing .
do they like disney stuff ?	five years apart 11 and five what about your kids ?
i go to disney world every year !	i love going to walt disney world every year
mickey mouse is my favorite , and i love songs from the movie frozen .	we went to disney . next summer maybe not .
i can sing all the songs from that movie !	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
excellent . i went to the park with my daughter . how was yours ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
wow ! you certainly seem to enjoy music . are you feeling well ?	great how are you melody ?
i hope that i can find a new doctor job soon !	i am too busy , you know that . my kid .
i try to be supportive of my daughters dreams . she is a prodigy so it is difficult .	what is your dream job ?
she certainly is . do you like movies ?	i bet she is ! does she work ?
i think the best movie is friday ! have you seen it ?	yes , i love movies . especially comedy , horror , and fantasy . you ?
its quite amusing . silly even . do you have any other hobbies ?	i have watched it quite a while ago .
i am mostly good . tired and some wicked heartburn . is that over sharing ? you ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
it is ok . just pregnancy pains . it is normal . how is nursing school ?	yes i bet do you plan on having more kids or are you done ?
not baby , but babies ! i am having triplets ! what bar ? wish i could drink !	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
that is the truth ! i already have step kids so it will be wild for sure .	we should hit up a bar and have a few drinks .
congratulations ! we just moved into our first home . new places are exciting .	well , we have bought the house she grew up in , and she stays home with the kids .
i look young . i am mistaken for a student at the school where i work .	i am a grey eyed blonde . what do you look like ?
right now i am craving strawberry yogurts ! why do you not like chicken ?	i like chicken alfredo , it is so good .
good , how are you ? my father is an army man .	hi , its going well and you ?
92 years . my mom passed away while i was young though .	i am great , except both of my parents died this past year .
it was tough . we collected on her life insurance and now i work in insurance .	that is not bad , everyone who worked hard as you deserves a break .
its not bad , it is a new job . was recently fired .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
someone tried harassing me , and i complained , stupid politics .	i got fired from my job .
i was going to get something out of the vending machine and they looked up my skirt .	i actually just got fired for a mistake i made .
got embarrassed and left work .	i actually just got fired for a mistake i made .
ya , i keyed their car once i found out i was fired .	my dad used to be a insurance salesman until he lost his job
i am all done with school i work for a importing company	still going to school . and you ?
what is your degree in	i am trying to make myself study for an exam . what genre do you like to read ?
different fruit and tomato sauce	i am a microbiologist by education .
i hike a little with my wife	i am a freelance artist .
do you guys travel much	i like to go kayaking .
oh , we do not ruff it much , hotels are more our speed	i do not camp often . i do travel a lot though .
agreed what type of food do you make in the woods	yeah i bet you get to travel all the time .
no , fresh and canned sauce . i love papaya	i do , i eat locally made food from it .
haha work is funny . i am still in school .	hi , i am in the 3rd grade
robots are cool ! my friends like to play with them	i am still learning so it might seem a little goofy
i like robots that fight each other like in transformers	yeah movies are pretty cool ! i love animated ones , especially disney and ghibli
i like the human kind of robots they have at disney world	yeah movies are pretty cool ! i love animated ones , especially disney and ghibli
i bet i would . i am in third grade !	i am in 4th grade right now .
i like when i get to play with my friends	no , not really . i like school . what about you ?
not really . maybe a singer ? i do like to sing disney songs	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
i really like the songs from frozen the best . have you seen it ?	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
i am very well thank you . how are you today ?	i am great , do you like to travel ?
i am thinking of retiring soon so i will be able to walk more .	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
do you like to travel ? i have been to spain several times .	do you live in the usa ? what will you do in retirement ?
it is hard to do on a librarians salary sometimes .	i really should travel since i will be retiring in 6 months .
do you have any hobbies or a job ?	it is good pay but not fun to go to every day .
interesting . i bet you get a lot of 60 year old clients like myself .	i do not work , just travel .
guess i should have asked what kind of crafts first . haha .	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
my dad taught me to eat a variety of things . what do you do ?	i eat pretty much everything , what about you ?
that is great ! i work in construction and love to build houses .	i am a construction worker . how about you ?
i do like music . my dad taught me to play the piano and guitar .	i do . mainly metal and classical . what do you listen to ?
i wonder if i built it ! do you have pets ? i love my cats .	i had a couple of cats when i was growing up .
you do have a growing family ! pets and cats . cats are special animals .	we have 4 cats . they are so odd at times .
i agree . my dad taught me to love cats .	i adopted two cats , they are adorable ! what do you do for a living ?
i am sorry to heart that .	sorry what ? you are a builder ?
hello , no plans . maybe i will dye my hair .	yes , i am fine , and you ?
blonde . are you any good at softball ? i also have to work unfortunately .	i love to play it , but that could be because its part of my job too .
is it weird that i have been spending so much time playing role play games ?	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
sorry to hear that , do you work ?	that is why i am a gamer .
so you are in the army ? could not do all those shots . too much blood	no , i am currently unemployed . i do not like the career path i chose .
yes , in a factory . wish i could work at home though .	yea i do . as much as role playing
i like to watch youtube . probably too much	i have a factory job . what type of games do you like to play ?
hi i am maddie , i am 13 !	hello . i am sam how are you
you must have a car then , i have to ride on the school bus .	i thought you said you were 21 ?
wow my older brother drives a toyota too	ca not wait to try out a self driving car . hope i will be able to afford one !
well i play soccer , i am on the team .	i like to play chess , how about you ?
oh my mom is an addict	i try to drink water mainly .
i have a cat , his name is contraband because my dad is in the army .	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
no i am to busy with school for boyfriends	i have a boyfriend , but we live separately . what about you ?
i believe so too , i like going to school .	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
tired man , been standing all day at the pumps . what about you ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
new job , i do not think it will work . you teach kids ?	i am currently self employed .
the fumes get to me , would rather be in the gardens . hungry ?	elementary school , actually ! i love kids
those carrots are from my garden , i could try landscaping maybe .	i hate vegetables , especially celery .
i love working with my hands but they just want people to cut grass .	photography could be anther avenue for you
nope , do you ? i wonder if my real parents spoke english .	yes i can also make french , italian and chinese
yeah , the people who adopted me are a hoot though . trying to marry me off .	no not at all because i am adopted and i do not feel love at all
nope but my dad wants to find me a good one to date .	haha yes , so i can be a mom ! i am very proud of my husband .
no its my mountain bike she goes fast	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
ai do its very fun . helps to stay fit	no no , i cannot drink
i did not think you are that old . what do you do for a living	were you drinking when you discovered that ?
i do not drink helps me stay healthy	i am a construction worker . how about you ?
you have to if you do not want to get cancer	i try to eat healthy .
did you now , have any 3 headed cows ?	you just stay on the farm ?
then you have not seen true cancer yet	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
i would be too especially with all the radioactive material	what is it like on your farm ? mine stinks
hey there , i am doing well , little tired , you ?	hi there ! i am well . you like football ?
that sounds so relaxing , i am actually bout to settle down and read some poetry	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
what do you mean exactly	i got to read today instead of playing sports so that was nice
but why ? whats the point	you are flattering me with the coffee talk !
oh i am sure , so are you a sci fi fan at all ?	well its good to be passionate about stuff , i guess
that is really boring , sports at all ?	yes , i love to watch football
that is pretty dull , anything for fun ?	yeah i like watching sports whos your fave football team
oh wow , i am sure you do	yeah , i thoughtfully too and it is fun
sure i am just up grading homework i am a teacher in grade school	sure , tell me a little about yourself
why is that ? maybe play a game board games are my fave	i thought you were still in elementary school
online you can or would you like someone to be there with you	yes , do you play ?
like me ? would you go on vacation to the beach with me	i tour with a band , maybe you could do something like that .
how old are you . my parents were teachers as well	you could take kids with you to the beach .
sure hun what is it ?	what would you say your favorite band is ?
really that is crazy for how long ?	i am not sure what that is . what is it ?
omg i would use it to sneak in to backstage of my fave band up	yea that is how we were taught to be
i am good , just got back from playing basketball .	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
i live in arizona with my mom , she is a dentist	i live in texas . you ?
no , i do not have any siblings	no , just them . it was lonely growing up . do you have siblings ?
tacos , i am looking for a job at a restaurant .	seafood and fruit . what do you like ?
who is your favorite music artist ? mine is travis scott .	i love to eat at exclusive restaurants .
who is your favorite music artist ? mine is travis scott .	music . i love all kinds of music .
how sad , that he just past away .	o yes he is a great artist !
i bet , what was your favorite song from petty ?	that is sad ! i am sure it is not true .
hi good just writing some music and you	i am great , i like music
i have a dog she loves for me to sing to her	i am doing well , and you ? ahh a musician you are !
how nice i am an upcoming musician i sing folk music	do you know how to sing ?
i love sports i hope when i make it to sing at a game	i play it in my freetime . i am an aspiring singer so hoping to become famous
female that is why my parents do not support singing say it is risky	you can play and i will sing along
thank you that made my day what is your dream career	you ought to go for your dreams and passion .
how cool maybe i can play the piano if you solve crimes on television	my dream is to play music for my job one day .
it makes a lot of money go you	my dream is to play music for my job one day .
just got done moving . me and my friend got an apartment together	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
in atlanta near a bar i work nights at so i can afford college	i was in a state university
hospitality i want to run a hotel	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i like industry since i am a natural blonde , blue eyed get good tips	risky business all the time !
are you stay at home parent ?	i hope you make over time pay
sorry i am trying to think for something for dinner i hate chicken	nope i am not home enough to care for them . you ?
i grew up on a chicken farm in north georgia	i eat chicken with a fork for dinner
i love animals especially chickens	growing up on a farm , it is different
hi , how are you do you have a daughter ?	i am making a late dinner
i love to eat french donuts and you ?	ah , you have a child . only one ?
you must be beautiful and handsome	i do not think i want any kids lol
doctor is my occupation and do you watch movies ?	what is your favorite movie or tv show ?
why did you say that ? i love the movie friday	i wish i had a family . do you have one ?
my daughter is very smart she is a prodigy	they said it was wild .
although i am searching for a new job , i think i can help you with bees	i will tell her that . she is looking for another job herself .
i am still a doctor , and i can help your bee issues . . .	i will tell her that . she is looking for another job herself .
i read two books a month and my grandfather raised me . you ?	hi , i am doing well and you ?
great ! i had a horse but he died . he only ate kosher food .	that is a big difference ! do you get a lot of time to read ?
no ! i am fit with no broken bones or scars . you dance or sing ?	wholehearted agreed with that , but he does not understand when i am reading
wow ! did both parents raise you ? you ever stop to read when you ride ?	i always sing songs very loudly .
i like getting pumped but i like reading more . you like sausage ?	i love to read . what about you ?
yes ! i cook kosher foods only . my father died .	i do ! sucker for italian food . lol
thanks ! i like riding horses .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
hi . i am mike and i work for a computer company in the city .	good morning , how is your weather there
i spent my youth on a farm .	that makes you in your 50s !
i use to go to the beach when i wass young . i am 45 now .	i love the beaches in florida .
i do . as a recovering alcoholic i meditate to music .	i listen to a little bit of everything .
i have never heard of them .	yes , love it . great band .
if they come around i just might !	i will have to check those out . thanks for letting me know
i use to back in the day .	no , i am not really in to games .
i like playing scrabble . its fun .	i like board games . video games are confusing to me
wow ! i can somewhat relate ; i played college football .	ahahah what do you play ?
i broke an ankle at a star wars convention . let the wookie win is a philosophy .	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
i think chewie eats whatever he wants . do you like coffee ?	i do , but i am not very good at it . is it a hobby of yours ?
i run a blog where i report on different coffees . where did you grow up ?	coffee is the life force .
cool ! i live in los angeles . i read , too ; mostly poetry and star wars fanfic .	i heard about that but have not read it . what is it about ?
no . i think they are poorly written . how about you ?	i love the game football !
i hated rogue one ; it was unnecessary and distracting , in my opinion .	yes ! was really a great movie . wish they would make more like that .
do you think so ?	ha ha ! ! well it helps when you enjoy football .
hello . how has your day been ?	what is your favorite kind of car ?
that is very fun . love the game	it is great ! how about you ?
no you are not . donuts are healthy	really ? i have never heard that before .
haha . i would love to see that	that is really healthy . i wish i had time to do that
i love music . do you	that would be very nice of you . you sound talented .
my favorite music is taylor swift	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
what did i make you do	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
oh yeah . i know that	and what song was that ?
hi , i do not . i can see what is posted on the board at my school	yes i love the stuff . tell me about yourself
culinary arts , i want to be a pastry chef . do you like paella ?	i am going to study music production in college .
it is a fish stew with rice , very good . i can make it for you .	i like volunteer work . i love food and farms .
i also love fish and chips , lol	i would have to agree . do you work or are you school ?
is she a chef or caterer ?	yeah , she has a list of must see stuff . do you like to travel ?
wow . how do you feel about that ? my brother would kill me .	do you like her cooking ? any favorites ?
maybe one day she will find another profession .	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
what do you do ? do you have any hobbies ?	i m sure she would . if you paid her .
ah , ok . getting ready for work in the morning . my bones hurt .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
slow down . i am 56 , and when you get to be my age , you stay hurting .	oh i know that , do you have any kids ?
i bet mom is proud . i carried my kids for 9 months , and they do not visit .	yes i bet do you plan on having more kids or are you done ?
they say its because i joined a group that role plays world domination .	i hope that you are still able to live a full life .
thank you i think so too . do you work hun ?	yes , totally agree with you . i think the world gets bored as well .
i bet that is fun . i am a house keeper now , but i painted for 20 years .	i am a professional painter .
abstract . a lot of my paintings are in our local museum .	the paintings mostly , i love art . mostly the older stuff from around the 1800s
i am . i miss painting but this arthritis is horrible .	my profession is painter , but i would rather be a museum curator .
i am doing well and how are you	hi i am good , and you ? i am in colorado , where are you ?
yikes . i am relaxing with my dog trooper	i am good just watching a movie
do you have any ? mine is a black lab	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
i am from colorado , what about you ?	i like dogs ! and i like hiking .
nice , anything exciting ? my enjoyment is rock climbing	in colorado , i spend a lot of my times hiking and doing other man things .
i do like to stay active , i also enjoy hiking	hike up dormant volcanos . i live life on the edge
i must be too cause i enjoy my activites in the spring more	i guess i would have to say that i became an engineer and i enjoy that
do you enjoy coffee ? that always helps my energy	i guess i would have to say that i became an engineer and i enjoy that
pretty good and yourself ? i like to try different coffees as a hobby	hi there ! i am well . you like football ?
wow that is good . i also played football in college	i am good and i do not drink coffee , so i cannot help you with that
that is awesome . i like to read poetry . do you like poetry ?	good sport ! how long have you been playing ?
i am also a star wars fan !	do you write a lot of it
nice superman dc comics huh .	do you have a favorite comic ?
so is my kid , as well as spider man	i love comics books . who is you favorite super hero ?
no i do not deer hunt .	yes , i love to watch football
yeah , well what about you ?	hunting and football takes up most of my time .
hi there . why are you out of breath ? exercising ?	hello , how are you ? i just got home from the gym . really wiped , big workout !
do you run on the road or track ? i , personally , love the treadmill .	you can run on a treadmill ?
why not use the treadmill or a rowing machine ? or maybe get a dog	oh i am a runner , too ! i take my dogs with me though but its good exercise
so , do you enjoy eating too ? my love of eating is why i exercise .	have a dog so i do get exercise walking him .
i have the horrible habit of eating when i am bored .	exercise is known to make people hungry . do you have any pets ?
i go to the gym all the time but never played sports . what do you play ?	i should really exercise daily .
do you have any pets ? i have two dogs . golden retrievers . sam and max .	i like blue too ! i do , it is good to stay in shape .
is it hard to take care of a horse ?	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
hello , doing fine my name is mark and i work at home .	hi , i am doing well , enjoying relaxing , you ?
i have a trust fund and i like to workout and socialize every day .	i like to work on cars and to travel
great , you need to try my gym do you date ?	i wish i had time for that but i have to save money for a car .
yeah i never had a serious relationship .	dating . free spirit at the moment . yes i do .
do you like dogs and cats ? how about popcorn ?	understand , remember you only have one body more important than money .
its raining where i am in alabama .	it is the only food that gives me energy to make cars .
it a great place to live	i am in alabama , we dd not have anything like that .
praying is a large part of my life	many people do not care about that .
hey i am doing well . how are you doing ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
that is awesome . i love shoes that is one of my favorite things to shop for	i am doing good , just having a break from work . sales can be wearing
lol i like carts . i also like watches . i sell watches for a living	i spend lots of cash on buying things for my hobbies .
that is cool . i bet you love it	she sounds adorable . do you have a car ?
i understand . i want a rolls royce ghost car	britney spears . i think she is wonderful .
those are very cute	it actually is red ! red cars are the best !
shopping , and defending my career to my family	well i love to shop , dance , and buy unique shoes . what about you ?
no they disagree about my boss he is a watch dealer	yes families always stick together .
i am well , just watching hockey . do you watch sports ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
cool . i live in a rural area and have to stay busy . where do you live ?	i do not play , but also enjoy fishing and dogs ! do you have any pets ?
i am a farmer . what about you .	i work as a professor at a local school .
a rural farm with a lot of land .	basically , all i need to do now is adopt a dog and i am set .
it is hard , buy my dog keeps me company . do you have dogs ?	basically , all i need to do now is adopt a dog and i am set .
i am patient . life is pretty slow out here .	yes i have 2 dogs .
well if you need a break think about vacationing in a rural community .	yes its a way to relax .
pursue your dreams now while you are young .	i will travel there tomorrow .
hi , sitting here with my three dogs watching the olympics !	hello , i am doing good and you ?
i love being in a polyamorous open relationship !	i am just kidding i do not have a job ?
my father was a salesman , helps my dog walking business now	i do wish i was a dog , i think life would be easier !
very very cool . sounds fun	do not have a car right now to drive
so is my dog , wow so cool	i also have a black car they get hot so quick
lead singer for a band , music teacher	i like to work on cars its fun
millions of plays on soundcloud	i listen to music most of the day
ha ha i am so shy	you think so huh ? big music fan
i am doing good . sitting here with my two dogs that i live with how bout u	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
i am sorry about your feet . do you have a massager	you can run on a treadmill ?
oh my gosh , if i lived closer i would let you borrow mines .	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
thank you . i know about being on feet all day so i know how you feel .	you can run on a treadmill ?
i am in the gym regulary as a trainer	i am a professional painter .
oh wow , you can still get in the gym i train older ladies ?	i am a personal trainer . i love to stay active . what about you ?
lol i understand , i love doing the treadmill and my rowing machine	you can run on a treadmill ?
you still look awesome . do not worry about it	i look like my dog as well
thank you ma am same to you have a nice day	i agree . me and my dog have the same colored hair .
hello . i am into software and web development	hi i am good what is your job
sorry to hear that .	i am sorry . maybe you should find a job you love ?
cool . i like playing board games like chess	i love to play it , but that could be because its part of my job too .
father , mother , 5 siblings . mum was a teacher . what of yours ?	i do not really like any of my family .
sorry to hear that . i guess it was challenging for you growing up	she was a stay at home mom to my siblings and i .
yes . i play guitar and piano . and you ?	i like to go to movies , listen to music , take vacations !
nice . do you play a lot of it at the beach ?	i like to play the guitar . and video games .
ok . have you ever attended a music concert ?	do you still play ? i love to go to games .
great , how are you ? i just finished watching one of my favorite documentaries . do you enjoy those ?	hey , i am doing pretty well , you ?
did you just move ? i live here in pennsylvania with my husband .	is that a tv show ? i spend more time with books .
good for you and congratulations on your new home !	what state do you live in ? i am in pennsylvania .
i just started working as a personal assistant about three months ago . how about you ?	i am a filmmaker . its always interesting .
shaping you minds . that is a noble profession !	i teach first grade , where do you work ?
i try to finish reading a new book every week . do you read for fun ?	very much so . it is a very rewarding career .
there are 3 new harry potter books coming out this month . i am so excited !	i like a good book , but i find i get more into movies .
i recommend them ! maybe you could borrow one from your stepdaughter ?	i have never been scared by a book . i would rather watch movies .
doing well hanging out in manhattan where i grew up and you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
ah very cool . what color if i may ask ?	i am trying to get my ba in finance
i want to die mine but my wealthy parents will not let me .	haha right ! it is a great color .
it is a no go for them . very wealthy bankers want me to look good .	i think it is important to know what you want to do before paying all that money .
i am headed to business school next year too . gotta look the part .	and you do not want to ? what business is it ?
i already have a yale finance degree got it in 2011	but the cost of school is so high .
ya . i enjoy it especially since my very wealthy parents pay for it .	but the cost of school is so high .
where did you grow up ?	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
i am good ! i am at trabajo . that is spanish for work .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
me too ! i have been writing some songs in spanish too .	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
i can study french while you work on the roof . just stop yelling .	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
are you afraid of heights ? i study many languages . spanish and french currently .	i taught myself french and i learned spanish in high school
you should get to trabajo on tackling your fear of heights .	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
yes ! imagine all the things you could do that you avoid now ?	i like to learn new languages . right now i speak english and french , looking to expand that .
i sure do . gatos y perros . do you have many pets ?	no dogs do not do so good around the cats . cool name !
oh wow . those cats are expensive . does your dog like them ?	no dogs do not do so good around the cats . cool name !
hi jefferson , i love bmws i have one too .	hi , that must be hard i just got out of high school
no they are not , they like playing golf .	i do not have money to buy them as i am only in elementary school
i would love to visit manhattan .	i wish i knew how to play .
that sounds nice . i enjoy stocks .	i plan to start school again next fall .
you must come from a good family .	do you enjoy investing in stocks ?
that s awesome , what do they do for work .	you must be very wealthy .
that s cool , is that what you wanna do as well ?	you must be very wealthy .
best of luck to you in business .	yes , but school will not pay for the things that i need .
great ! i just finished my morning walk . how are you ?	i am going just fine , and you ?
who is spook again ? i forgot .	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
glad he is well . kids and i leave for disneyland in two weeks !	he is a mutt . do you have any pets ?
yes , this is my tenth time . i love the place , especially mickey mouse .	yes ! i especially missed it over there .
what are your plans for this week ?	yes ! i have been there a few times , nice place
my kids love pizza . sometimes that is all i have time to fix after work .	i have no plans . today is a rest day for me .
yes , and i have time to relax and read a book before i hit the sack .	yes its a way to relax .
i work as a labor and delivery nurse . very demanding job , but exciting .	i work as a nurse . you ?
hi , i am doing great , what about you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
i do not use a watch because i like to work with my hands , i like gardening	i like the tv show
i work as a clown , this helps me to overcome my childhood trauma with clowns	i am a professional painter .
kind of different because an older couple adopted me when i was young	i was not until my dad died when i was 16 . difficult time for me .
yes , they love me . my dad even tries to set me up on blind dates	yeah it was really fun growing up
well , he is trying to do what he thinks is good for me	you mean the garden you planted ?
yes , he does , but it could be annoying sometimes	i know he does . that is what helps me
what do you do for a living ?	i know he does . that is what helps me
i am doing great and how are you ?	i am going just fine , and you ?
it is raining here today and cool .	i am doing well , how are you ? the weather is nice here , and there ?
i have power and so does the school i work at .	yes , do you ?
my power is mutli tasking with quick response .	my kids love taylor swift .
no , can you ? i am young so i have not got that skill yet .	i don t know if i could do that !
sounds like it . i am flying by plane soon .	i do not do it that often but enjoy it .
i am getting married soon !	but i do want to learn how to fly a plane .
he thinks he does , but i am not sure yet !	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
i am four i eat chocolate candy a lot	hello , and yes i would love that .
i enjoy looking at blocks and singing about letters	no i ride for fun only .
i do not ride a bike because when i talk people do not understand	yeah it is because people can talk .
yes , the alphabet . that is really sweet	i like to read but depends on the book really
i look at blocks , too young for books	that is nice of you . what does she teach ?
yes , i am gonna be 5 soon . big guy here	what kind of books do you like to read ?
thank you so much i hope your dreams come true	yes , it requires an upper level of comprehension , i suppose .
good life is what you make of it	www , well thank you very much !
no . i prefer to spend my time on facebook . do you like the facebook ?	yes i like to stay in shape
i am fat so nobody will marry me .	that is good . i think relationship is not good for health and career . wht do you think ?
i like vegetables when they are coated in fried dough	yes , i think that i do .
my favorite color does not exist . what is yours ?	i love the color purple .
i am a weird lady who does not believe in god . blue is pretty , though .	mine is blue . what about yours ?
i watch cricket and olympic potato throwing . what is your favorite sport ?	no , i do not watch many sports .
crickets are a type of arthropod .	i like baseball out of all the sports .
when are we done with this	is that what you want to keep doing . i would love to do something with sports .
i am well . how are you ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
that is good . what do you do in your free time ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
that is cool . i like to jam with my friends whenever we get together	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
no , but my favorite word in spanish is trabajo . do you ?	no i do not speak spanish
because its a warm color ?	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
me and my best friend like to practice speaking spanish together .	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
i accompany musicals for a living . does making hot dogs pay well ?	i make hot dogs for a living .
yeah . that is why i am glad to do something i love for a living	yes , but it does not pay very well .
new here too . just doing this while hanging out with my family .	haha that is cool you the youngest ?
that is ok . so what do you do for fun ?	i am sorry , i do not understand your question statement .
read books and figure out our next trip to disneyland !	i like to read books , play guitar and play video games
brown hair , pretty average . scrubs during the day since i work in a maternity ward .	i love video games and believe it or not , i am famous as a character .
that sounds more cozy . what is your favorite band ?	i like the pants you guys have to wear . do you have any pets ?
i am old but i still like young stuff like mickey mouse .	i love the beatles .
i keep getting older , he keeps staying the same age !	do you like to listen to music while you read ?
it must be so depressing to be the pet dog of a dog !	he does not like to walk with you in the park ?
good , just listening to some death metal . how are you ?	i am going just fine , and you ?
wow ! i too like to stay active and am the swim coach at my local pool !	i like to run . how about you swim and i run along the shore ?
yes , my family and i are from india so we enjoy the beach as well !	i love being on the water . blues my favorite color , like the ocean .
yes , except my mother is very traditional and i prefer to be more free spirited	haha yes , so i can be a mom ! i am very proud of my husband .
i value the authentic cuisine and holidays	tradition of the household . favorite music genre ?
yes , my favorite is broccoli and tofu in a garlic sauce . yum !	yes but i do some of it as well .
i usually marinate it in a wok but it can be cooked many different ways	egg plant is delicious ! i like it breaded and garnished with chopped garlic and dill .
my favorite is chicken tikka masala	i have never tried indian food
good , hello how are you today ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
i just got through playing softball	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i need a job , i got fired today	everyone at my job has been talking about it
i am going to sell insurance now	i am a secretary for an insurance agency , what do u do ?
i really do hope so	do you get paid well for it
i like taco bell a lot , you ?	no favorite foods really . what about you ?
right , those are the best	hmmmm food sounds good right round now
can i have a discount on burgers ?	flipping burgers for a living is tough , but it is still possible .
hi . i hope you are having a great day . mine has been awesome .	i am good and yes i live in the us
i am too . the cleveland browns are my favorite team .	i am great . how are you doing ? its great weather for football !
did you tell me that they were not very good ?	yeah . but i do not have anything else to tell you .
cool . i like eli manning .	they said it was wild .
yeah . he is getting up there like payton .	that is a drag . how long did he play ?
kizer . he actually is pretty good .	he likes to kick the ball around every chance he gets .
well all things considered . he is still a brown though . sigh .	yeah he did the team really good . but i think we will have a good season
green from cincy is blowing it up	no doubt about it . packers .
it is . but being active outdoors is becoming difficult .	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
i like looking out the window of my first home i just bought .	i have two boys and three little girls . any pets ?
in three months i will no longer have time as i am expecting .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
i am expecting triplets . they will take up lots of time .	that is funny and probably true ! i do not have children
very much so . is it just you and your cats in your home ?	i totally understand why it would be difficult with kids .
does us mean you have a spouse ?	really ? my kids are adopted , and all still very young . years left in the house !
that makes sense now . sorry for my misunderstanding .	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
how many cats do you have ?	do you have or plan to have kids ?
wow sounds cool , i wish i could run , i am a language student .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i just finished learning spanish and i am going to learn french now .	do you think you will win ? how is your record ?
my favorite word in spanish is trabajo	i like to learn new languages . right now i speak english and french , looking to expand that .
interesting , please tell me more	yes , i speak french , english and arabic so we get asked to different countries
good job ! i only study languages but please tell me more interesting things about yourself	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
i like camaro better , bumble bee baby !	i have a ford mustang , do you go to school ?
no way , my dad also has a mustang	i have a ford mustang , do you go to school ?
well hey , what can i say ?	my son is smart i am teaching him spanish one of the four languages i speak .
i am doing quite well thank you . how about yourself ?	hello , am doing good . what about you ?
i do not own a television , i prefer meditation .	i am a yoga instructor and tour guide at the natural history museum
very nice . where are you from ? i am living in alaska currently .	i work as a yoga instructor . do you have any favorite musician ?
it is very beautiful . i recently quit my job so i can focus on my spirituality .	i am from north dakota . where in the us are you from ?
it is very desolate here , i enjoy the tranquility .	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
i like to garden and fish , how about you ?	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
nice , i like cars but i no longer own one .	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
that is nice i wish i played an instrument	i like to sing , do you ?
that is cool i do not like my job	ah , music has always helped me see the finer things in life , would not you agree ?
i have a job in a nursing home	i work for operation blessing and help kids
maybe if you build up a following you will be able to do that full time	i am trying to have a higher income so i can support my kids
yeah its hard when you are not making money	i hope you find a job . my prayers are with you .
that is a good goal do you have a family	it will be just keep praying and stay optimistic
is your boyfriend supportive of your music	i do not have kids so i do not know , sorry .
i really want to try and lose weight but i have no motivation	yes and i try to spend lots of time with him
good ! just finished preparing my yacht for the airbnb guests this week .	hi ! i am doing well thanks . how about you ?
i am sure they will love it . it is good income . do you cook ? i love food .	i am ok , about to cook dinner .
ohh i like tea too ! i try all kinds of thing when i travel around the world .	i like to cook and garden .
you can still travel . you would be surprised , the deaf community is strong abroad .	i love to travel , just not able to as much as i want !
i completely understand having anxiety about it . find a travel companion !	i understand . it is difficult all around .
i do not know many people . my money and age make it hard to find friends .	no kidding ! i travel all the time , for work and pleasure . maybe i will visit !
not as easy as it sounds . at 23 most people my age are in college still .	maybe we should be friends !
true ! i should try that . i wish i would have thought about that myself !	being poor i have tried a lot of ways to cook for cheap .
i am great . just got done with my run . and you ?	hi ! doing great ! you ? blue or green ?
me too ! i do not eat any meat though	hello , i am fine how about you . whats your favorite color , mine is blue
my husband says that it is not healthy for us .	hello , i am fine how about you . whats your favorite color , mine is blue
wow ! a dog ? i am wearing a blue shirt . my favorite color !	aw that is nice . i never had a dog . i bet its awesome .
that is awesome ! i love watching sports .	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
i love watching college track ! running is the best !	not much of a sports fan , but i know a bit . who is your favorite team ?
why ? i was married two years ago !	well we cannot always do what other people say . that would be boring !
and you want to grow up to be a dog ? i want to eat meat .	i understand her ways , but that is why i am single ! ll
yes , please ! what do you like to do as a hobby ?	sure , tell me a little about yourself
well , i sure as well know to play chess !	that reminds me of learning how to play music too . whats your favorite genre ?
it is a pretty interesting game .	h really ? i do not know how to play lol
ahh , well , how old are you ?	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
i am around the age of 35 .	i am 24 . how old are you
i actually live outside manhattan	i live in new york city actually
do you drink a lot ?	i do like new york city !
same . alcohol is not my forte .	yes , wine tasting is a lot of fun , but you get real drunk without realizing it .
all food . i am trying to find a job at a restaurant .	i like tacos and pizza
is travis scott from al ? he is my favorite artist .	that would give you a lot to do in the area .
my older sister does not know anything .	are either of your parents dentists ?
i should ask my mother since she is a dentist .	dogs are good animals and so friendly .
do you enjoy basketball ? i really enjoy playing it as well as watching it .	i have to go take the dogs out .
maybe your dogs do not like travis scott . lol	i will make tacos . my favorite .
i will ask my mother if she knows any good optometrists .	ha . that is one way to look at it . do you have any pets ?
it is too rainy here . i was planning to go to the park	yes . i am going to work .
yes , i have not been able to go as i am job hunting though	i like to work outside .
haha i am hunting for a job not for animals !	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
i am a surgeon but am moving for my daughter so need a new job	sounds perfect ! i am not looking forward to job hunting
12 she is a child prodigy for chess	i am , with one kid . she is 6 . you ?
yes she got her math skills from me	no , i do not have her skills . maybe one day i could learn .
yes that would make sense	she teaches math in high school .
i live in north california	i travel . to foreign countries mostly .
wow are you a rich person ?	where do you usually travel ?
dang , you must be good a saving . i did build a house in italy once	if you are rich i guess you can just pay someone to do it for you
i work construction , my father taught me all my skills	you ever try to paint yourself ?
i do love that as well . you have any pets ?	you eat out of the same plate as the cats ? i hope not .
i have a few cats that i love . what is paella ?	i have no cats . what kind of dogs do you have
three , how long would it take 3 cats to eat paella ?	quite a few . best part is cooking them !
wow , does it have shell fish in it though ?	that would be two cats , yes .
no clams even ? thank goodness	they said it was wild .
i am driving my honda civic 2015	hi ! i am not much into music . i like animals and pets . do you ?
are you listening to music	lol . i listen every day .
i do producing music for some artists	do you write music or books ?
i am in to rap music	i do sometimes . who is your favorite artist ?
how about pizza do you like it	do you like music ? music appreciation is artistic .
charlie loves those , my pet	i like pizza , its easy and yummy .
dog , he really likes it though	he is a mutt but i love him
haha really , that s the truth	he is a mutt but i love him
great , my dog just won his agility class ! you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
nice ! i hope it is not orange , i hate orange .	good how are you doing ? are you in school
no , because they all wear fashionable workout wear . i think fashion is dumb .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
you do not workout ? i work in a bookstore , my mother is dissapointed .	you must get to talk to people at lot ! that would be great !
oh , i see . my parents kicked me out because i am not using my chemistry degree .	you are lucky , they always get in the way when i workout .
are you dating ? i have a tough time dating considering the time with my dog .	why would you like to be a dog ?
i am sorry , but you will .	youre not dating anyone right now ?
i do agility classes with him . we travel to different competitions .	i have a dog . do you have any plans for your future ?
howdy , hey ! i am pretty good	hi ! ! i am great thanks ! how about you ?
that sounds awesome . i am just washing my cars and my dogs on my day off .	same ! i have 8 grandkids , so its hard to get out with the dogs !
german shepard named luke and a pit bull named duke	i restored a mustang . vroom
i am and actually thought about that , but i am a mustang man myself	haha ! how long have you had him
oh i agree , got two vintage mustangs . they are my babies	i bet , but my two dogs may have a different opinion lol .
construction worker , it is good honest work	i go to music concerts and festivals all the time , except for rap
very much so , good chatting with you	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
hey there , i am doing well , and you ?	i am well just took some cookies out of the oven
i usually binge something in the background	i am great watching tv how are you ?
i wish i could find a good job like that ,	do you bake
most of them are call based , and i have a hearing disability	think that is a great job . lots of time to just be .
well , that is about it . not enough to live on	i know , right ? it is crazy . everything is online anymore .
either way , not enough to live on . do you have any animals ?	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i have four cats and a puppy , they are my everything	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
they are so much more worth it than a relationship	my pets are four cats and two dogs . love them like family .
good goal i am a dad at home with kids while the wife works	i want to be a lawyer
just the city for me , like now for my kids .	i am still a high school student lol , what do you do ?
i have 8 children , 7 are under 5 , and a son in jr hs	i do its super fun what city do you want to live in ?
yes , and i love movies horror are my fav . you ?	yes ! and farms i grew up on a big one
not all the time , trust me . lol	o yes my child is very busy ! lol his father is stay at home .
that is interesting . so what do you parents do ?	haha that is still pretty awesome for a dad
my mom is a cop and my dad used to work at home depot .	my parents work at home depot
have you been tested for memory problems ?	i love to ride horses .
i am good how are you ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
nice ! the who is my favorite band	i am great , i like music
lol , spook is the name of my cat	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
no , i spend all my time working at my local supermarket	no , i am not really in to games .
yeah it does , especially because i have never left the state of ohio	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
yeah i should , and some pizza because my favorite is black olives	haha i knew you would ask lol yes i love it and you ?
lol , how good are boston creme donuts ?	yes donuts are great haha
true , except the worst is old fashioned	yes donuts are great haha
yeah , but i prefer spending my time hiking and watch the sunset .	i like painting pictures of animals .
i just got a pet fish for my 18th birthday yesterday from my parents .	yap , please save a pet if you can .
you should celebrate more . what is your favorite color ? mine is orange !	i have to say that i expected that .
ah i feel you , my boyfriend broke up with me two months ago and i am sad .	i lost my parents as well .
he gave me no reason , he just left and did not even text me !	yup . left when i was two . i do not see him at all .
yeah he was weird , anyways i gotta go soon see ya !	are not we supposed to use a certain character ?
thank you , have a nice day , bye !	maybe he will make it stop ! lol
hello ! i just went to this great italian place that needs servers .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
great ! what activities do you like to do outside of work ?	do you like having a sister ?
i also love sports ! gymnastics is my favorite .	i go to the gym and dance .
agreed . even though gymnastics is an individual event , it is a team sport .	i have to stay healthy , trying to play basketball internationally !
that is great ! i would love to talk to her about it sometime .	yup . i like the competition . same with sports . good competition .
great idea ! i love italian food , especially garlic bread .	that would be cool . i would love to go to italy . my favorite food is italian .
definitely ! after a four hour workout , bring on the bread !	that would be great ! do you like to workout ?
what position do you play ?	i would be so jealous . haha . do you enjoy basketball or have a favorite team , too ?
hello ! i was just in alaska not too long ago .	i do not blame you . it is dreary .
they are filming cliffhanger 2 and i was there briefly as a double .	i agree with that , i have never been there .
interesting . i did a small part but had to return to my day job .	i have seen a couple versions of that movie . its a great story
yes , it does . feed your body and mind well and you will be strong !	but can think deeply which is cool .
i read a lot on meditation and religions . what will you study next ?	i was not raised religious , but buddhism sounds interesting .
the food there is not as kosher as i would like it . try working out .	haha , it will take longer than a year , but maybe eventually .
good . a strong body has always served me well in the stunt world .	i work out and try to eat healthy .
i am good . about to go to basketball practice .	hello , i am doing good and you ?
wow , that is amazing . what are you doing tonight ?	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
i am going with my older sister to hear travis scott .	not much , just working on some plans . how are you tonight ?
he is a music artist . that is nice of you to volunteer .	i want to someday own my own restaurant .
i bet they do . my mom is a dentist and sometimes volunteers at the clinic .	i have always wanted to play an instrument . i do not have the patience .
so it is in your genes as they say .	i play music professionally , a violinist in the local orchestra .
no , i am trying to find a job . i applied at some restaurants .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
me too , just got done feeding my horses and have some chili cooking	i farm too , but love to eat all the food
eating for three ? are you having twins ? !	that sounds like a lot of work . i tend to a farm , personally .
well i can certainly bring the chili then ! what part of the country you in ?	i have two boys , they love helping out with the cattle on our farm .
i am in kentucky myself , so kind of far	i raise the chickens on my farm here in kansas .
new house ? that is exciting . i live on a horse ranch	well come to my farm ad you can ride horses .
i love riding so its great . have 3 arabians myself	quite peaceful on your ranch . . huh
they do . siegfried , beowulf , and hector . and absolutely .	i have two boys , they love helping out with the cattle on our farm .
could always have them help me tend the fields , would keep them busy	i have two that help me on the farm , i do not have children yet .
hello ! i am well , how are you ?	hello its going good . . . u ?
i am watching birds with my cat . what your favorite football team ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i am dying my hair different colors	i am watching sports . what about you ?
red , blue , green , and yellow . i am thinking purple too	everything . who is right , who is wrong .
i like rainbow colors , you ?	hot pink with purple highlights ! what is your favorite animal ?
i do not have one	i like blue . actually all the colors of the rainbow
i just do not have one	i like the color purple . do you have any aspirations ?
no , i do not like having pet hair around	no , i do not have any pets . what are some things you like
i am ok a bit hang over from party	hello i am good and yourself ?
hey you never too old for party	i am doing ok at a young age
just go out once in a while , who will love it	do you own a dog or cat ?
i work with a bitcoin company	i am an aspiring actress .
that great , i wish i could sing , would come to your studio	i keep records for businesses . do you have any pets
haha ! not me , not even in the bathroom	you can play and i will sing along
my dog sing better than me lol	haha wish i could do the same !
i am from florida , california , awesome	i am from the great state of california
hi there . i am well . why do you feel old ? i get pretty lonely	i am fine thank you how old are you .
sorry to hear that . i like to try and make time stop	why is that ? so much world out there .
hope you learned your lesson . i pretend to have super powers .	oh no ! i am so sorry . are you evacuating ?
if i could have any i would have the power to heal	i do not know what that means . do you have a little girl like me ?
glad to hear that . life is like living in a cloud	you will get there soon enough .
i am from chicago . but i do not like it much	you sound lonely . it seems like its what you are designed to be .
like you would not believe . best pizza i have ever had is here .	i make some of the best pizza in chicago . do you like pizza ?
i bet . what will be the first thing you will eat	i can make a lot of great food for you .
teaching ? what grade ? i am good just getting in my daily gym session .	i am great , just left the gym .
well that is certainly interesting . almost lunch time , i only eat when i am bored though .	which school do you teach at ?
where do you like to hike ? the only hiking i do is on the treadmill .	you can run on a treadmill ?
ew , dogs ! do not like them , only thing in common is short hair !	do you have dog parks near you ? that is where i normally run to with them .
parrots ? that is quite exotic , i only have time for the gym anymore .	do you have any animals , i have a dog and parrots
wow i have never heard of a gym that allows parrots , must be nice !	i literally just lift weights all day every day . what about you ?
that is hard to imagine , all i can see is them pulling at my short hair .	i literally just lift weights all day every day . what about you ?
that right there is a brilliant idea , i am going to make dinner now , i am bored .	true , they can be just as expensive lol .
biggie smalls who shot ya ? hbu ?	i like music all kinds of music rap r and b country .
i have not heard much rap yet because i just moved here . have you been here long ?	who is your favorite rapper ?
my first home is here . do your children like pizza too ?	yes . do you have kids ? i have one
i have step children and am expecting triples in three months . what else do you like ?	yes , i have three dogs . they are my babies .
that is a nice car . i drive an impala	i like all sorts of country it does not matter what
mine is only a 2005 . its a little old	yeah , pretty new . it is my first year .
i used to have a dog . he always loved riding in cars too .	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
i am well . how is the evening going for you ?	hi ! i am great ! i just graduated highschool ! how about you ?
that is great news ! how long have you been in remission ?	hi , i am doing ok . i am a banker . how about you ?
my father had cancer a few years ago . he is an avid sewer as well .	you train me in it and i will help you with your finances ?
he sews quilts and in my spare time i sew as well .	i also love to sew .
that is too bad . i grew up in new york and needed warmth from quilts . .	i also love to sew .
yes it can be , thankfully i left and went to school at yale .	i think it would be cold there too misery .
cool ! i have graduated from yale and looking forward to business school soon .	hmmm . i teach financial business classes . you ?
school is important to me and my parents especially since i am just starting out .	hmmm . i teach financial business classes . you ?
hi ! i am great ! how are you ?	i am great just got back from the movies , u ?
i have some candy , do you want to share ?	i am fine how are you ? do you have any pets ?
do your cats like candy ?	i love it ! make sure they can a little bit of candy
i like ice cream too , i like everything frozen .	yes they are . i love cat shaped candy .
what games do your cats like to play ?	i am a teacher at a preschool .
do you have a job ?	i like to play video games
wow ! what sport did you do ?	i do not currently work .
i love ice skating . i went ice skating with minnie mouse last year at disneyworld .	i am particular to skating , ice , roller , whatever .
hi there . how are you ? what do you do for a living ?	hi ! ! i am great thanks ! how about you ?
i went to school to be a veterinarian . i hated it though .	i am a video game tester .
sweet . why did you learn so many languages ?	i can only speak one language !
except in video games . i have never been out of the united states .	i can only speak one language !
i love chocolate bars . almost as much as i like rpgs	i do like chocolate , and tiramisu .
i play rpgs all the time . i have a bit of an internet addiction .	haha , i like playing online games
i have this dream of getting a job where i can work from home .	i understand that . i am in school right now .
no . unfortunately . i have tried to figure out a way to make a living at games .	sure , i am into rpg computer games !
good . my job rocks . i pump gas !	its going good and what about you ?
i watch movies . but not it . clowns terrify me	i work in a school
if you are afraid of something bury it in the garden	my father died when i was two , which is much worse .
are you married . i am single and always get set up on blind dates ,	where were you born and raised growing up ?
i am adopted . my parents are very old .	you should be . those things are always difficult .
i am going to the circus tonight . i hope the lions eat the clowns	i was in a car accident when i was younger .
i am afraid of clowns so the jaws of lions can save me	i know . its for you silly clown .
then i can shake hands with them , and thank them for the service	they are very nice once you are not afraid of them .
hello . great . i am playing ping pong .	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
cool . i eat chocolate bars while playing . i love those too .	how often do you play
are you bilingual ? i know a lot of chinese .	what did you do for work when you were younger .
i am about to work with my father , he is an electrician .	i only speak english and no foreign language .
awesome ! i love mickey . i think we are done .	mickey ! he is such a cute thing . do you go to school ?
well . no , not really . i love chinese language .	yes , he loves making chocolate milk for me
okay . nice talking to you .	it will change many things . learn chinese now .
i am doing pretty good what about you ?	doing well . just hanging out with the family . how about you ?
i am relaxing too i was doing shopping today , i enjoyed it .	i liem that and spending time with the family
i bought a dress as i have wedding after a month .	yes , anything new or interesting
i am excited as my cousin is getting married . do you study or work ?	yes and i am excited to see how it ends
wow so good for you . yes is weekend enjoy it .	nope , full time school . and you ?
wow you are meeting a lot of people . from which city are you ?	yeah , that is nice . i need to relax !
meeting new people is very interesting . how is the weather there ?	i am in ohio . do you live in the city ? i have never really been to the city . . .
do you have snow there in the winter ?	its pretty humid .
doing great mate , what about you ?	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
reading is good to relax , i also like to take bubble baths for that	reading is great . how bout you
i work part time as a bartender , but i do not drink any alcohol	i am actually an author , you ?
nice , i do not know much about babies because i am single	do you have children ? i have 2 .
i live alone with my two dogs , kinda sad because i am 34	that is the time for family and spending lots of time together .
no , not yet . just my dogs and sometimes i play chess with the neighbor kid	no , no kids . i am a 32 year old who still leaves at home
cool , i live like four blocks away from disney	do you still play ? i love to go to games .
thanks for the chit chat	it was really nice chatting with you . must go . just remember to love .
no i have never played over chat before .	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
no , i watch nascar though . my father used to drive .	oh yes . you play that as well ?
i am 30 . how old are you ? what do you do for work ?	how old lol ? i am getting ready for work .
i work for the us postal service . it is pretty boring as well .	i work in the banking industry . how about you ?
your husband ? do you have any pets ?	i had a german shepherd once , they like to herd .
i am married . i have a german shepherd named barnby .	yes i have 2 dogs .
sounds cute . barnby has a grey collar and leash my favorite color .	do you have pets . two dogs , fred and ethel and one cat lucy for me .
hi . i am well how are you ? tell me about yourself .	hello , i am doing well on this rainy day .
i am a finance graduate from yale . i could invest your earning	i am trying to get my ba in finance
haha . so you are into grilling cooking ?	i prefer restaurants most of the time . i can afford it , working in finance .
true with a cold beer .	i prefer restaurants most of the time . i can afford it , working in finance .
lol good luck with that	i would rather drive a car ! i want to move down south somewhere warm
definitely man . cheers to you and yours and get some help with the gambling .	thanks ! good luck with your finances as well .
you need money to make money so really think about that help	thanks ! good luck with your finances as well .
take care my and be safe on your move	you train me in it and i will help you with your finances ?
i will probably go to the gym ! i go almost everyday	i am getting ready to exercise .
oh that is interesting ! i love going to the city to walk my two dogs !	i like exercise , you should try it
not really . my favorite machines are the treadmill and rowing machines	yes . i love to run and swim and bike and dance
i listen to music while working out !	i love music !
i love punk rock music . what about you ?	i love music ! i listen to almost all music from each genre out there . you ?
what type of instruments do you play ?	i do . mainly metal and classical . what do you listen to ?
awesome ! i do not really play instruments but that would be neat to learn !	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
oh cool ! do you have many students ?	i play piano and guitar . i have been doing it for a long time . do you play anything ?
great , so far . just got back from my weekly dance lessons sore !	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
we stayed at santa monica when i was seven , in 1989 . i love the beach !	where do you live ? you should teach me sometime .
funny how music sticks in your head depending on where you are .	i do not remember it was so long ago lol
me , 1989 making lite brite pictures while listening to new kids on the block shriek !	i know that all too well . i am a 5th grade teacher
stratego , and battleship ! i used to beat my brothers both .	yes but i do some of it as well .
your being a teacher is hard work . i am just in retail food store , night shift .	you are right , like old school board games ?
well , very nice meeting you ! i have got to get dressed for work ! bye !	you got that right ! what grade do you teach ?
doing fine just got home from a sunday ride on a monday in my bmw	i am well thanks . in nyc you ?
you should think of walking . when i was younger i walked around manhattan .	i am trying to get my ba in finance
i work in finance . in 2011 i graduated yale	yes i would like to do something along that line . we will see when i graduate .
business school is what i plan to do next year	well , congrats on graduation ! i bet you felt pretty on your graduation day . i want that
i am sure you are missing them sorry .	i would send my kids to your school .
maybe you could reconcile with your wife	oh , i am sorry to hear that . yeah they are great kids .
that is nice of you to want her happy .	i bet she is your world . my husband will miss out on all the good things .
well maybe you will meet someone new in a while	faith can be a beautiful thing .
hello . my pet fish and i are fine . you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
his name is nemo ! what fancy tea are you drinking ?	hey , i like to fish .
the tea sounds cool . is there honey in it ?	oj . . . as in orange juice ? he loves the stuff .
museum tours ? sounds exciting ! i used to visit museums with my ex .	to stay warm , i enjoy drinking tea . do you like tea ?
how long have you been doing them ?	i have worked at the same museum since i was 18 so i understand .
i like all things orange ! it is a hobby and an obsession !	i like going to art museums and theater .
hehe ! as a matter of fact , i do ! and guess what colour my pet fish is ?	not as much as i like eating , especially fish !
correct ! i got it for my 18th yesterday !	i would say orange . i like blue as well .
taking a bubble bath being single with my dogs !	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i taught them to play chess and not drink alcohol	well maybe your suppose to be single .
assigned sentences and words yo	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
my name is mike , you ?	are you serious . how did that got for ya lol ?
cars are cool . i like instruments and singing	my favorite character on cars !
yeah i am , i teach music also	yes , i do . do you sing or play or just listen ?
professor of music at michigan state	i am still a teenager in school .
i wish i had kids	whats wrong with your current high school ?
i amwell , how are you ? just watched my favorite documentary	i am good just watching a movie
documentaries are my favorite kind of film , movie	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
cool , i read one horror book weekly	i have seen a couple versions of that movie . its a great story
i started a new job in pa over three months ago	i like romantic comedies or action movies .
my husband did also , we live here in pennsylvania	where do you live ? i am in pa .
oh , i am sorry north dakota huh	we live in pennsylvania . where do you live ?
oh nice , kids are pretty cool sometimes	i can imagine , that be good to do in north dakota , where i live
awesome , kids are an awesome thing	www he sounds like a cool dad
sure , what do you like to do	hello , and yes i would love that .
cool , i love going to concerts with my friends	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
i like anything that involves a good time	yes , that is my favorite genre of music
nice do you drive an big truck and live in the country	you just stay on the farm ?
very cool ! my part time job is a burger king , not as good as yours	you just stay on the farm ?
after working a shift it is the last thing you want	yea they have very nice restaurants and throw away perfectly good food .
no my mom cooks for me	i have an addiction . if i cannot order it , i do not need it !
that is the only good part , my parents are always on me	i love to order chinese food and settle in with a favorite book
oh yes i love same chilly weather	on sundays . what do you do for work ?
i love to do gardens and to go out in such weather for hiking	is it humid at all ?
lol yes , do you have pets	which school do you teach at ?
i have one retriever with whom we have fun	yes i have two dogs
yes i am school teacher my students love to pet them	we have a family dog
in the elementary school from 2 nd to 6 th grade	1st grade , do you teach religion
nice , it s a good passion to be a teacher	i teach first grade , where do you work ?
good , i am off on sunday and i go to church on sunday	it is a job of passion .
hello . i like to shoot hoops , so orange balls are good with me .	whats yoru favorite color eh ?
right now i am applying for jobs , i want to work in a restaurant .	i go to the gym and dance .
i get you , my favorite rapper is pretty stylish , travis scott .	i am looking for a job . . . was hoping you could help me out .
awesome . my mom wanted to be a chemist , but ended up a dentist ! go figure !	he is such an awesome artist .
unemployed at the moment , i really want to work at a snazzy restaurant .	i currently work at a local highschool coaching basketball .
i love to read . i would rack up a big bill working in a bookstore .	when i open my practice . i will hire you .
you too ! here is to a bright future ! cheers !	yeah , i sure hope so . do you play any sports ?
i will and you do the same .	i agree ! and thanks very much . i hope it works out .
i work in an office now i wanted to play football	hello , do you work or go to school ?
do you like coffee ? i do .	i also love to cook . do you have a job ?
i am more of a han solo guy	i do not really like it , really
i like to try all new blends . do you swim a lot ?	do you swim for a team ?
no i did not see that . i am excited for the new star wars though	yes i watched that one three times because it was so funny .
i like to swim i guess . do you have your own pool	i should try swimming , lol no balls in it !
you are missing out . the big screen is part of the experience	yeah . i have always been a fan . what do you do besides work on youtube ? read ?
me too . but it is not practical in maryland	we should watch game together .
hello dirty red , i am a high school student . i just won homecoming queen !	do you work ? i am in school .
i enjoy running do you ? i hope to run a 5k this year .	i like the color purple . do you have any aspirations ?
i listen to classical music , when i do my homework . i am currently a straight a student !	no , i do not . i do not like music very much .
no i do track and field in school and i want to start racing for charity .	yes , i am in high school
nope no tractor , i want save my money for college .	yes , i wish i could own one ! do you have any hobbies ?
possibly , i want to be a physical therapist	but the cost of school is so high .
it can be very lucrative	but the cost of school is so high .
hello , i am fine thanks and you ?	hi , doing well and you ?
ah that is nice ! i play softball in my free time .	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
i wish i had time to learn another language , but i am busy with work .	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
since i have been fired from my last job i have been working in insurance	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
my father is a member of the army , served for 10 years now .	i quit my job translating spanish for my company and have no work .
ever since my mom passed away he has been much more serious about his job	how long is there father deployed for ?
it is ok , it happened when i was young , thanks anyway .	i am sorry to hear that . i am sure he was good at it . what are your hobbies ?
yeah everything is ok now , how about your life ?	thank you and yeah she told me it is stressful
i am doing good ! how are you ? i just got back from walking my dog !	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
well , that is what i do for a living . walk dogs !	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
is that fun ? i just graduated , so to celebrate , i went kayaking !	i am currently a college student what about you ?
also , i do know how to survive in the wilderness ! i enjoy reading as well !	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
no , i am not , but i do like girl scout cookies !	yes i do ! i have always wanted to be an explorer myself . animals are very charming
i do like thin mints ! those are my favorite , and i do not get anu others !	i really like canines
i do like mexican coke . i think it tastes better than waht we have here !	i love mexican food . so much cheese and spice !
yeah ! i know it is expensive , but so worth it !	i totally agree they taste much better
doing great . watched nhl hockey and walked my german shepherd dog .	hi , doing well and you ?
i live on a farm and work here too . what do you do ?	i work in a school
wow , great . my artistic ability is limited to coloring books . lol	i am an instructor in it .
neat . my husband was adopted and he is spanish .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
yes , but i do not . i am limited to spanish food names like taco . lol	i speak only english , and a little spanish
yes , i eat them while i watch hockey . do you like hockey ?	my favorite food are tacos . and bacon . haha
what instrument do you play ?	i do like sports . i especially like baseball and hockey .
you are so talented . i can sing farm songs and i can milk cows .	violin , i hope to be a music teacher , what game were you playing ?
i am a teacher and waitress . i am gone from home too much to have pets .	no , no pets . do you have any ?
what are the names of your pets ?	lucky you . if it were not for my pets i would go crazy .
i love that movie ! do you remember the part where she rides a motorbike ?	i really love those names for your pets .
is movies your favorite hobby ? i race motorbikes for fun .	i used to watch her all the time , not so much any more .
i have been there to get food . i have to waitress to supplement my income .	i go all the time . how do you keep the lights on ? what do you do ?
thank you for what you do . you are generous and kind .	that is great . maybe you should cut and donate it .
why have you not been skydiving ?	i appreciate that . anything helps .
do not be afraid . it is exhilarating ! the adrenaline rush can not be described in words .	i live on a mountain . you can skydive into a park from my plane .
i am so rich i eat off of golden plates	i love the color black
my favorite color is green , for dolla dolla bill	i do not think you would like fish .
i can afford you and everything you own ,	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
i heard some bad things about you so i will have to pass	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
energy is not physical , but spiritual and can change at a moments notice	i think it is something that just happens with age . how are you doing today ?
sometimes time can mysteriously move forward , the universe is always changing	yes , smart , but that does not get you everything . looks matter tremendously .
smartness is a frame of mind	that is true . what is your family life like ?
you can change what you were born with , modify your dna with your beliefs	i am . you guessed it right .
i am fine thank you , how about you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
that is alright . my husband is a doctor , and he deals with kids .	hello , i am doing okay . how about yourself ?
mostly 4 year olds . yes . do you have brothers and sisters ?	yes , its why the family loves it . are you married ?
i play tennis professionally . i wish i could have some chocolate .	yes , i have five children and a dog .
that is a good future plan ! i have a dog , and i love taking walks with him .	you should get a dog then ! walking mine makes me very happy .
sure , why not ? i have kids who like to sing too . my family keeps growing .	i will try not to , but they seem to like me . that is why the dogs are on watch !
that was very good ! my kids like to sing too	ah yes ! almost forgot about that . do you have any hobbies ?
it is bedtime here too . i sleep on the third story of my house .	haha definitely not ! my dog sleeps with me and is very comfortable .
i am doing ok . just dreading halloween . i hate clowns	hi , its going well . and you ?
what do you do for a living	nothing wrong with that . you have any kids running around ?
oh well that is cool ! i am not a farmer but i love gardening	that is no fun have you ever considered working in it
i love country music . i do work at a gas station as well	i like all types of music .
do you love to hike to ?	i also enjoy listening to country music .
well that sounds like fun . do you know your parents	i am on the road a lot
no unfortunately an older couple adopted me when i was little	no my parents are still alive and well .
oh , i was just watching rob dryden videos on youtube . you ?	i am just thinking about life tonight , you ?
that is right , it was on tnt tonight .	i watch whatever is on
very cool . as a skateboarder i drink a lot of coffee as well .	coffee is the life force .
my friends who all are skateboarders like different coffee too .	that sounds good ! i usually opt for coffee .
right on . i like watching football . i have my bucs hat i wear everyday .	i never played any sports .
understandable . my girlfriend dabbles in poetry .	i also like writing poetry .
if i had some talent in it i would .	that is a great idea to write a book .
my name is karen . happy afternoon !	debra and i do not like sports ,
blue jeans ? i like blue . are you into fashion ?	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
wow that is really cool . i am going out running later .	i wear a bikini , usually a blue one . . . sometimes purple .
staring too much at the screen makes your eye tired .	well i like to play video games .
i like eating veggies . i keep a very balanced life .	i enjoy listening to music !
blueberries i guess . i make blueberry pancakes .	i eat very healthy . mainly veggies .
great . blueberry picking season is over now . i think i will go next year .	i love the blue flavor
well everything has its own season .	i agree , my shiatzu has a blue tail . i dyed it cause blue is my favorite color .
i teach elementary school in chicago . and you ?	i am from california , and yourself ?
oh i have never been there . i have heard its pretty . i love walking in nature	i live in utah with my 2 dogs .
oh i am not much a fan . . i prefer gospel . the music i hear at church every week	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
gardening , love my vegetables ! walking my dogs . . and you ?	i like to paint and play with my dogs . what are your hobbies ?
oh dancing is fun . do you work	i mainly enjoy the outdoors . what about you ?
okay , do you have any children	yes i am self employed , what about you
i have two little boys . toddlers , what a fun age	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
what are you hobbies ? to pass time	i love toddlers . what are their names ?
oh hello . i am charlotte . i just got back from canada .	hi there !
should get to bed soon . the library will be looking me in the face early .	do you think you will win ? how is your record ?
oh i am glad . that is what i love about being a librarian . retirement soon tho .	oh wow ! that is a lot of reading .
he enjoying that ? last month i turned 60 , just a few more years .	he is retired now but still has connections .
that is nice to spend time with your dad . he must love it .	oh nice does he teach you ? do you travel ? traveling is great ! !
wow . i do some travelling with my daughter . i enjoy that .	oh nice does he teach you ? do you travel ? traveling is great ! !
i love to go north . since i live in the south .	i really should travel since i will be retiring in 6 months .
ha ha . never been there . actually canada is the only time out of the us .	yeah i enjoy some chocolate every now and then . whats your favorite food to eat ?
hello jefferson , how are you	hi . do you like sports ?
great i a blue sweater that i love and you sew it for me	yes , i am fine , and you ?
awesome , i am cooking dinner right now	do you do anything for fun now that you are retired ?
oh wow your are a survivor	that is very ture , but i am also trying to eat healthy but it is so good !
i can imagine , you should eat more vegetables now	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
super ! also we can go running together	me too . no meat . grow my own veggies .
where do you live friend	yes ! that would be perfect for me ! what is your favorite color ?
ok i live next to you when you want to go running	i live in chicago . have you been to see the blue man group ?
good here listening to my favorite music old school hip hop and you ?	hi ! good thanks , and you ?
that is cool have you ever tried dance lessons i do them once a week	well yea but the littlest things interest me
that is amazing , what else you do besides loving horses	how long has it been in your family ? i bet its a great experience .
i am in fascinated with new kids on the block have you heard of them	i stay in a big city how about you ?
i was born in the eighties how about you	i have heard the name before yes . do you like them ?
that is a tough field hope it goes well	i want to be a lawyer
i do not work but i enjoy dance lessons during the week there fun	i want to educate kids
what sport do you coach ?	hi there ! i am well . you like football ?
i always liked basketball . i played d1 football instead though	really ! you must be very athletic then .
oh , have you ever tried coffee ?	you should explore how to make some in a class .
you should definitely give more a try . i drink 5 cups a day	oh yes and a good veggie burger is wonderful .
grew up in the gutter ? why ?	getting paid 5 mil a year is a big change ! college was all ramen , haha
now that is a success story	my schooling was paid for due to playing football . why do you have so much debt ?
i love poetry and star wars	ha ha ! ! well it helps when you enjoy football .
yes ! tell me about yourself ? i am a gamer .	well i like to play video games .
i am addicted to the internet , want to work from home	well , its nothing interesting like gaming , i can tell you that
nice , i dye my hair all the time i could not work there .	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
thanks for saying that . i attended to vet school once	i do not think that money can make people happy all the time , but it can help
no , i hated it so i quit . i did not like seeing blood .	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
just spend time roleplay gaming . you ?	i work online as a professional gamer , which has been a great career
it does pay , not much but it does .	yes , but it does not pay very well .
what else do you do ?	yes , but it does not pay very well .
i am doing great out here	hi , its going well and you ?
alabama . i love it here .	i have three brothers , how many do you have ?
i work in a taco shop	i work with my two brothers .
do you exercise every day	woah ! i live in texas . do you have any sisters or brothers ?
what does that mean ? poly	do you have brothers and sisters also ?
i like one ? i do not understand that	yes , i have a brother and a sister . what about you ?
hm never heard of that before	yeah , maybe that is why i cannot be in a loving relationship .
it always is . life sure is unpredictable .	yeah , and quite not interested to be honest .
hey i am larry , what is your name ?	hello , i am a chef actually
nice to meet you as well . so alberto , do you like comic books ?	hello ho ware you today
who is your favorite hero or villain ? mine is spiderman .	i used to belong to one that was exclusively cookbooks .
cool , do you have any other hobbies ?	really ? ? that is so funny , who is your favorite hero ?
that must be fun , what do you do for leisure ?	i have few hobbies . reading and cooking
in your free time for fun .	i do cooking stuff mostly
that sounds rewarding . do you swim ?	i love to garden during this time of year .
a little worried about my dog . what happens when we die ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
no clue , it is very scary . what happens do my dogs ? do you have any ?	why not ? did sumin happen ?
we are having another county bake sale , i always go . will you go ?	i had a dog but he passed away .
they are welcome at the bake sale , we have a dog treat table .	i will take it , i love dogs .
will you build a dog house big enough for many dogs ?	i love dogs ! your home life sounds great .
will you build a dog house big enough for many dogs ?	i hope its very nice . and large .
three . i knit dog sweaters , would you like some ?	yes , 20 stray dogs i got at a shelter .
i can knit all sorts of things . your kitty might like boots .	nope , would love one eventually . what kind of dog do you have ?
awesome ! have you been to any of there concert ?	i love to cook , so i will be doing a lot of that .
good for you ! hard work pays off ! when you retire , you can travel the world like me !	yes they enjoy it more than my cooking , haha .
mexican food is good ! i get to try many types of food due to travel !	i have tons of money , and am too lazy to cook .
yes i have ! love it ! i travel by yacht , so i have been all over !	yes , love it ! but i do not get to often . i went to argentina last year .
adventure ! i rent my yacht out when not using it so others can experience it !	it is ! for fun , we make boats as well . you should really come and visit !
5000 week . definitely worth doing at some point in your life !	i rent for now since i only make 50 , 000 each year .
i am not familiar with that	haha well it definitely seems worth it ! what do you do for fun ?
wow ! that sounds so interesting !	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
i am well . how about you ?	hi there ! i am well . you like football ?
poetry . roses are red . violet are . . . ?	i am a coffee fanatic , yes !
you are right ! a broken arm sounds painful .	oh not that must hurt .
just bumps and bruises from playing college football .	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
no . now i spend time reading poetry . do you drink coffee ?	yes and today . college football !
do you like different kinds ?	i am a coffee fanatic , yes !
i try a lot of kinds . do you like star wars ?	yes i do . i actually really enjoy it .
i am not much of a reader . i prefer watching ufc and nascar .	the only thing i do is read . i do enjoy that
cool . i am in construction myself . been at it since i was 16 .	as long as you are reading , that is all that counts .
tea is okay . i prefer horchata . get it all the time when i have mexican food .	i like to eat eggs , hot dogs and milk and coffee .
i am not a green thumb person , but gardening is okay .	i arrange flowers for a living .
i build homes for low income families . do you live alone ?	i love to garden during this time of year .
i have had that before . not sure i am a fan . chai is good though .	yes . my family owns one and i work on it .
you should consider working in construction like me .	used books are the only thing i love to read a lot of .
you seem cool . we should hang out and have mexican food sometime .	i think i would like that job as well .
i am doing well , i had a long night at work .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i work at a bar for now . how about you ?	i am currently a college student what about you ?
that is interesting . are you able to pay all your bills with that job ?	i make chicken nuggets sometimes when i cook . i am a nurse . any other hobbies ?
haha i never heard it worded that way before . well played .	yea . . . i am still a teenager . hopefully this pays for college . what do you do ?
i know this if kind of random nut , how much is rent on average where you live ?	i guess when you are out of college and start working it is different .
that is not too bad . what state is it ?	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
i just got an apartment with my best friend here in new jersey	trust fund . it is running out though . i hate paying bills . how about you ?
yes i go to school in manhattan . i am working on a nursing degree	yeah . i am in college , how about you ?
good and hope the same for you .	i am doing great , how about you ?
i come from a musical family . my father was a violinist and i teach piano .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
i walk as a hobby and try to find parts of the city to explore .	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
here in sunny california and looking for volunteer work .	i live in canada at this time .
mexican food but especially chili verde .	i do , i eat locally made food from it .
they do not serve that at the homeless shelter where i volunteer .	i love mexican food . so much cheese and spice !
okay send me the recipe so i can tell them .	yes i should that would be good for me .
lol , i attend country concerts on the weekend	i like to work on cars its fun
lol , i work on cars that are vintage	oh , do you like vintage cars ?
wow , my 2 dogs love spaghetti too !	yea i love all of that too
you have a yacht ! how rich are you ?	i bet , but my two dogs may have a different opinion lol .
lol , i just like to listen to country music	jealous but then not , its so expensive . you must be rich !
true , but the banjo is so relaxing !	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
wow , that is really cool ! can i see ?	i like to work on antique cars while listening to classic music .
awesome . my babies are due in three months	i am a nurse , i might deliver your baby , where do you live ?
triplets ! ! ! i think i can handle it though	not yet . . they are in preschool
absolutely that sounds like fun	lol . i bet they love that
i am from italy so this would be totally new to me	yes , its a lovely place . you should visit sometime !
we have great food , fattening but great lol	that is nice . speaking of italian cuisine , i visited italy this summer .
that is good exercise . i have a trail by my new house	what part of the country do you live in ?
that is good exercise . i have a trail by my new house	sounds like good exercise . in the country or city trails ?
hello , how are you today ? i am retired and enjoying it .	hi , how are you how is going day
that is a benefit . i hang with my grandkids .	how do you have grandchildren if you are in th grade ?
i am 40 . are you in college ?	i am 30 and still living at home .
i do not care for burger king , mcdonalds is much better .	i am just in college , no kids or grandkids lol
have you thought about finding another job ?	i bet they keep you busy .
maybe if you found a better one before leaving .	i would love to have kids some day . any grandkids yet ?
very cool ! i loved it when my kids left .	where would you move to ?
it does not always work out that way .	sounds like you have your hands full even in retirement .
my goal is to run a k !	are you in school ? nope all done with school .
i want to become a physical therapist	are you in school , high school or college ?
what is your dream job ?	like high school or like college ? what do you study ?
i think that sounds pretty cool	i just made the baseball team for my college . will be the starting shortstop .
that is cool ! i won homecoming queen	is that your dream school ?
yes i am quite beautiful	yes you are so smart do you go to school ?
yeah that app is really cool !	i am glad you are taking that in school !
nice ! do you work out often	yeah that is part of school ! !
that is too bad . what do you do for a living ?	hi how are you doing hope all is well with you
to add to my income , during the day , i am a waitress .	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
i met someone last week that was 982 years old .	what kind of birds do you watch ?
i think so . how do you get around ? i have a motorbike .	yes i did that on purpose . they love it too .
cool . my motorbike has a blue stripe and red when i race , it is shiny .	i wish i biked more . i need a bike . was it hard to pick out ?
yes , and i always wear my helmet to protect my head .	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
i have brown big eyes and my skin is light . you ?	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
lol . you should wear more colors to brighten up	it is blue , what do you do for a living ?
i am good . doing math homework . i hate this class so much .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i am in middle school . i just turned 13 .	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
oh that is cool . what does he like to do ? i like to play soccer .	oh well what grade are you in ? my son is in 9th grade .
does he ride the bus ? i do .	i like to watch football . do you watch anything besides basketball ?
you are a very supportive parent !	if i had him , i would play soccer with him .
i sure do hope so !	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
i want to be a doctor !	i hope you can be ! i am not happy with my high school years up till now .
oh of course i will . what is your job ?	i hope you can be ! i am not happy with my high school years up till now .
am fine and how is your life	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
am also good and planing to watch a movie tonight	hello good and you ?
horror movies give me nightmares but i love adventures	what movie are you watching ?
am also a fun of love stories	movies are best escape for me and i need it .
i partially have interest in that .	i am more partial to metal .
i assist my uncle at a coffee store	i am a freelance artist .
do you find your work fun or boring	i am a professional translator .
wow , thank you for your service .	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
i just started as a pa .	i work , but my husband stays home to look after our kid .
no , not right now . i am expecting my first child .	no , i work too much for kids .
bunny rescue ? that sounds adorable .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
we decided not to find out quite yet .	yes , i have one boy and you ? they like movies ?
i am thinking a lime green for now . kind of neutral .	blue and red are mine . its hard to pick one lol
it is our first so i am pretty nervous .	i definitely love the colors , yes .
he is excited . he buys me all sorts of books to read about babies . ;	i been happy married for 4 years expecting my second child soon
hey , i was freaking poor growing up ! but my favorite food was cheeseburgers !	hello , sure . why not ? where are you located ?
i am retired , i was a gym teacher	yes , healthy desserts are the best !
yeah i volunteer at the soup kitchen a lot now	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
yeah , its a good cause	you ever broke a bone ?
oh fun , yeah your favorite skateboarder is rob	you ever broke a bone ?
yeah he sure can he used to be a salesman , door to door	yeah but he is smart . i am to forgetful to do it
yeah yeah , man , for sure	it pays the bills ! how about you ?
yeah , i used to skate on the ocean blues	yes all the time since i retired .
i am goog i work in a nursing home and just at home on facebook	hello , i am fine and you ?
it was usually being with my children but i am divorced and she took the kids	no , i work too much for kids .
maybe if i believed in god i would not go through so much	so get a new wife , life it too short to be unhappy
we have to believe in us i am overweight and i do not know last time i was happy	i do not think that is true . money is needed to pay bills .
i like soul , r b , jazz	tradition of the household . favorite music genre ?
nice i wish i could play	i like music ! what do you like to sing ?
2 a 5 and 7 year old	no , not really . my kids keep me pretty busy so little time for hobbies .
i am divorced and i hpe to find someone else once i work on myself	no kids , i am single .
good evening , what are you up to tonight ?	hi ! do you have kids ? i have one . a boy !
your boyfriend is five ? how old are you ?	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
does your mom know you are using the computer ?	that is a really good age .
ok , just making sure . i am 40 .	haha , no , probably not her then .
i do not , i work too much for kids .	yes i do . but no kids of my own yet .
maybe . i am working so i can afford a rolls royce ghost .	i would like more kids one day .
yes , i work for a watch dealer , there is good money in it .	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
i am doing well , thanks . how are you ?	hello , i am fine and you ?
are you doing anything to enjoy the weekend ? i ve been playing ping pong with friends	i am doing very well , thank you . playing the violin . how are you ?
why are you stuck there ? do you work there ?	i play the guitar . do you play any instruments ?
that s nice . what does she do for a living ? my dad works as an electrician	apparently i do not work . is there anything else about you ?
i m still in school right now studying chinese and learning to play violin and guitar	i play guitar but i study music industry .
awesome ! do you know what you want to study in school ?	i have never listened to chinese music . can you recommend something ?
i bet there will be time to figure it out . what are your interests ?	just make sure u study enough
i also like video games ! in addition to ping pong and the guitar and violin	i play music , and video games .
hello , how are you today ?	i am fine , how about you ?
i am doing great , it is rainy here .	i am fine . how about you ?
i am bird watching with my animals	i work hard at an animal shelter
i love all animals but cats are my favorite . do you like cats ?	animals . they are what matter
are you ready for the holidays ?	i do like dogs but i have 6 cats and no dogs .
that sounds fun , i am to old to travel .	i try to go to a new place every summer
i am just old , are you young ?	i think you just need a vacation . .
i am just to old to tell my age , afraid to travel to much .	just how young are you ?
i am saddened because my career choices are not supported by my family .	hi , its going well and you ?
i deal watches as my current work .	my job is in car sales . how about you ?
supermarkets are great . i like to shop in them	my job is in car sales . how about you ?
is it your dream job ? i have a rolls royce ghost car as my dream .	i eat it while i sale cars
i think ohio is great to shop for watches and shoes .	you ought to go for your dreams and passion .
that would be interesting . could you go shopping often with a cat ?	i would love to visit there . never really traveled , guess we wo not now .
i move around . it helps me be able to keep up with selling watches .	i am located in ohio , how about you ?
hi ! good evening . are you just getting up ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
i am a teacher . what do you do ?	hello , i am doing okay . how about yourself ?
good luck ! we are in the longest peacetime job expansion in history .	i am a student , and unemployed . what about you ?
i do some volunteer work . it is good for the mind imo .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
25 . it is nice to be young in nyc .	i am 27 , how old are you ?
yes ! what do you do for fun ?	i am 26 . do you have any hobbies ?
music . i play the piano , my dad was a professional musician .	i love playing the piano .
not much how are you doing ?	i am watching sports . what about you ?
sounds good . i love to watch nhl hockey even though its football day	great how are you melody ?
do you like dogs ? i have a german shepherd	i play music because my job is being a musician .
ahh makes sense . i grew up on a farm so we have tons of animals .	i have a few dogs , cats , chickens and more farm animals . i love all animals .
and what is your dream ?	have you thought of adoption ?
that sounds like the dream .	i would love to mentor a youth hockey so yes that sounds fun
yeah , i stay at home and tend to my farm .	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
just hang out with my husband .	yes that is all i do . it works for me
wow , for a couple of years i have been retired	i do not work myself . its more fun that way .
that stinks , in my spare time i like to gamble	practice all you can and it will pay off one day !
that is such a bummer ! grilling outdoors is my favorite	sorry , but have you ever won more than that amount you lost ?
dang , i like mowing the lawn on sunny days	i get to do that all summer while still getting paid !
yeah , i like taylor swift	i listen to music most of the day
lol , do you gamble ? because i do in my spare time	so i have heard . play any music while you do it ?
oh good point ! i have a buick	risky business all the time !
i am very great , how are you doing ?	hi , doing well and you ?
wow sounds very nice . i am drinking wine	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
it is very fun . i need it since i have 5 kids	lol ! ! do you have kids ? i have five
what sort of diet are you talking about ?	makes sense . i am more of a wine person .
why is that ? are you a health nut	i like veggie but prefer soda all day . you cook ?
haha do you also hit the gym ?	i mostly eat nuts and fruit , pretty healthy eater you ?
never heard of them . who are they ?	yes , i love them , they are the best !
i do not listen to music much because i am too busy	never heard of them . are they a pop band ?
good just cooking up some paella how about you	its going good and what about you ?
my next favorite is some fish and chips it is a weakness of mine	i love fried chicken ! how about you ?
right now studying art but my true passion is travel . do you like to travel ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
oh i bet , i go to europe at least twice a year to visit	i love to travel . at least once a year , i go somewhere .
yeah i have recently found out that i was a relative of cris columbus	yes ! what is your favourite dish ?
one of my least favorite things to do is pack and unpack	are you in to painting ?
are both of you male or female ?	we have move to different places
good . i am four . do you like chocolate ?	hello i am fine and you ?
are you a good singer ? i love singing	yeah , i do not like that either . how old are your dogs ?
are you a sword swallower ? because that would be cool .	i can hear , its just a way to say i am not a great singer .
did you have a dog ? i want to be a dog when i am older !	ugh , that must be difficult work . do you have any pets ?
i think i would be a husky if i could	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you grow up ?
i like to talk as much as a husky but no one can understand me .	dogs are so adorable . all of them !
what is that ? i am only a small child !	or can say a professional translator . but things are taking another toll in my life
i can spell out words with my blocks !	i know . i have to find ways to speak it more .
hello there , i am feeling good and like i might never die . how are you ?	i am doing just fine , do you like watching movies ?
nice ! after a busy day of soccer you should unwind with some wine .	great ! how are you ? what season is your favorite ?
i have not had homework in 80 years . i do not envy you .	i am in school right now . they gave me a scholarship for soccer .
back in my day we did not have calculators to help or television to watch .	haha . that is funny . wish you were in my classes .
yup , no fancy electronics , but i feel that has made me stronger .	honestly it was boring ! yours sounds so much more intriguing
yeah , it was rough 100 years ago .	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
well cars are a thing now . in my day we did not have them .	i cannot remember but it was back during simpler times .
i am 100 so not quite the oldest person .	years and years ago , i was only a child .
hi , yes i am enjoying every mintue . i just watch spiderman the movie .	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i enjoy fishing , specially in a nice day like today .	did you write a book or novel ?
and i love to cook them , i love cooking as well .	the best way to cook fish !
yes you do , fish is really healthy .	nothing wrong with that . i love to eat too lol
i love salmon , i can eat every day .	i tend to recommend a high protein diet . it helps that i fish lol
i would like to open my own comic book store , i like comic books .	it is a job of passion .
the best of the best is spiderman .	i also love to cook . do you have a job ?
hi i am good . i just recently came to this country and i am already pregnant	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
yeah but i am expecting triplets in about 3 months	ah , you have a child . only one ?
no , i already have step children , they are a pain .	haha ! no but my 2 kids could probably be considered that at this point .
well good for you , i am getting a bigger house now since all the kids	yeah . i am sure that all those kids are a handful .
i just bought my first one too and oh my god it is like heaven	well , we have bought the house she grew up in , and she stays home with the kids .
yeah i bet you do , no i am vegan and i am proud	yes , i love meat .
where do you work ? i am currently working at a school	i could not give up meat . do you travel any
me too , well i guess i should start eating meat now	i am a mother of five kids so i stay home
pretty good . just playing warcraft	i am doing well , just playing a game online . how about you ?
oh are you farmers ? i would live to make money like that .	i am doing well , just playing a game online . how about you ?
cool . i originally wanted to be a vet but hated it .	wow you love animals ! horses are worth it though . i wish i could ride everyday
could not handle blood .	sorry , why is that ? gaming is my passion .
rock and rap . how about you ?	i like all types of music .
what do you do for fun ?	i only listen to it .
i stay on the computer mostly . it is almost an addiction .	mainly ride horses . you ?
ha , not that bad . just need to go outside more .	you must do a lot online .
i am very well , thank you . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i have two kids and like listening to the stones .	i am doing very well , how are you ? do you have any kids ?
i love kids , i have two boys and would love to have more .	i do not think i could ever keep to a special diet .
at least six , maybe ten .	i do not . i have been to busy . maybe one day i will have a family .
it would be , but i love kids .	yeah . i am sure that all those kids are a handful .
what grade do you teach ?	how many kids do you want ?
oh , okay . i forgot . what grade are you in ?	i teach the eight grade , what about you ?
nice . are you going to go to college ?	i am in 4th grade right now .
wow , yall are complete opposites .	oh , i like music and dance
i used to be a receptionist , but got fired last week .	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
now i am an insurance salesman . i love to play softball .	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
no . my father is always moving military army .	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
yes , you have said that . what do your parents do ?	that is a lot of money .
yes , you got it . every time i get a new job , it is time to move again .	what do your parents do ? mine were military .
i would enjoy the travel better if i did not have to work .	exactly . makes the job not so fun
that is one way to put it .	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
enjoying a nice evening watching television cooking shows	hi , its going well and you ?
hummus is one of my favorite foods as a vegan	i am great watching tv how are you ?
do you like rollercoasters or sky diving ? i love them it is exciting .	yep that is why i would never live on water
i also like to float in the pool because i am a bad swimmer .	sometimes i like roller coasters , and sometimes i hate them !
i listen to country music	i listen to hip hop mostly .
i remember those they were the toy to have	i like to listen to rap while cooking dinner .
can you believe new kids was on tour last summer	i watched it when i was younger .
yes it does seem that way	yes i did that on purpose . they love it too .
i am well , thank you . how are you ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
sorry to hear . is that a mini van ? i drive one .	what kind of car do you drive ?
oh dear . hope you sort it out . you have kids ?	oh no refunds then ? that is lame .
family is good . i love spending time with my five sons .	i do not have any kids either .
not really into games . i prefer a glass of wine in the evenings .	i love to play it , but that could be because its part of my job too .
you cannot go wrong with a cabernet .	i prefer wine . not beer
just grab a refreshment somewhere . coffee is my favorite beverage .	i love to drive out on the weekends with my son . you ?
hey there , that sounds good right now , i am learning a new recipe , love cooking	hi ! i am well and you ? i do not cook .
same pretty much , considering i am not very good at it	how do you like to cook it ?
single , but not exactly looking . i have given up in a sense . if it happens , it happens	no , single , not looking . how about you ?
do you travel at all ?	well maybe your suppose to be single .
i love traveling , i try and experience different cuisines	i love to travel . at least once a year , i go somewhere .
how many dogs do you have ?	that is a good idea . most people love dogs .
that is cute , i have one dog , and four cats	both good guesses . 23 actually . i rescue them .
i as well , i am half way to crazy cat lady	i have two cute dogs . loe them . do you have favorite foods ?
i am doing fine . just listening to some country music . my favorite !	hello . great and yourself ? thank you .
i am going to a taylor swift concert tomorrow . i actually met her once .	i am very well , thank you . how old are you ?
i used to ride the bus . now i drive my red nissan pathfinder .	you will have a car in no time just stay focused . congrats on going to college .
i go to school for hairstyling . i need to learn to do my short brown hair .	i hate math . i am at college . do you like drive
that is good . work can be a pain !	do not work , just go to school which is not fun .
soccer is fun but i was never good at it .	i play professional soccer . my job is not enjoyable , trust me .
me too . i have my friends coming over for a party later .	i played a little bit of soccer in school , but was never really good at it
it is only going to be for a few hours . so a weekday is okay .	i could come play for the party . as long as it is not on a weekend .
ah , we are a farming family too . you have any pets ?	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
we have a german shepard named bacon .	no , i work too much for kids .
we do not go to church often . our religion is hockey .	we should watch game together .
ah , your sisters must not be a christian then .	do you ever watch hockey ?
i guess you always need people to pray for .	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
beautiful . one wall in my kitchen is red	she must take good care of you .
would you mind praying for my husband . we are trying to find his bio parents .	that is beautiful ! i would love to do so myself one day .
me too . he always says he feels like something is missing . i hope he finds it .	i am sure he will turn up ! any important people in your life right now ?
my name is rose and i grow them in my garden	i am a nurse . what about you ?
no i am deaf partly and i live in my home alone	no , i admit i do not .
i am a tour guide for the museum in town . and i am blonde .	red , its the color of the roses in my best friends garden . you ?
i love to sit outside at night and drink tea the fancy stuff . do you like tea ?	i do not drink myself .
i drink non alcoholic drinks . but like to go shoot pool and darts .	i put it in my tea sometimes . shhh !
no i do not dance . i love to read books from my big home library .	my whole life really . i do not play as much as i used to though .
this is the funniest thing i have done all day .	no but i read a lot . are you a reader ?
thank you for chatting . have to go to next chat .	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
good afternoon ! i am from new york city . and you ?	i am from los angeles and you ?
i love it here . i love to explore the city .	do you play any instruments ?
i love music ! i play a few different instruments and teach piano on the side .	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
interesting . i volunteer at a local homeless shelter in my spare time .	how cool . i own a business . what do you do with homeless people ?
there is a great big world to see .	i agree with that , i have never been there .
i can not have a pet . i travel a lot with my father who plays violin professionally .	i do not think a cat would be a good pet for me .
the who is a great band . also one of my favorites .	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
yum ! what is your favorite topping ?	i love some good pizza , what is your favorite band ?
yes . baseball , tennis and the olympics are my favorite sports . how about you ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i am an author , blogger and freelancer . what is your occupation ?	i take photos and film . do you teach at a private school ?
do you have an information technology degree ?	i work two jobs ! i am a teacher spanish drawing classes .
i earned an undergraduate degree in communications but have not found related work .	yes . majoring in nothing yet . i do like photography though .
i live in st . louis , missouri . are there any interesting landmarks near you ?	florida . i have lived here all my life . you ?
i have traveled to cleveland , cincinnati , miami , niagara falls and the bahamas .	i have not much , but maybe one day ! i take pictures locally
i am a 44 year old male .	i am , with one kid . she is 6 . you ?
i am good i live in a rural farm area	hello there . i am doing pretty well and you ?
no is that how you make a living ?	no , i work too much for kids .
can you save money that way ?	i am an editor for several different publications . do you have any pets ?
very neat . do you watch any sports ?	it allows me to save money .
i love hockey	no , i do not watch many sports .
i just watch i am disabled my main joy is coloring	yes , my hobby is playing hockey .
i play with my german shepherd	i do not have a lot of free time . what about you ?
i have been using the internet to find my husbands parents	i usually play with my dog and browse the internet . its a good life ! haha .
hi , so do i but i am only little so i might spell things wrong !	hello how are you ? whats your thing in life ?
yes , and my home is the cloud so i like white . where do you live	i love the color yellow . you ?
no , but i can stop time it is a superpower . do you have any ?	i like to stretch an do flips seeing i do gymnastics .
wow you are clever is it real gold ?	yes i love the olympics ! ! and gymnastics !
no , maybe when i am a big girl . are you going to olympics again ?	no , i am not a competitive person . you ?
i like using superpowers like flying . can you fly ?	i am active . i should show you the olympic medal i won
you work very hard . i would like to do a handstand . can you teach it ?	so do i . flying , mostly . but also maybe the power to explode things . like cyclopes .
i am doing well , thanks .	i am doing great what do you do for fun ?
i prefer to workout . it helps me with my career as a pro wrestler .	what is your favorite video game ?
i find those very uncomfortable , they would make it hard to move around .	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
i like wearing leggings when i am volunteering at the homeless shelter downtown .	you should they have lots of ways to get around .
i think ruffles are very cute . what do you do in your spare time ?	i like the pants you guys have to wear . do you have any pets ?
i think being healthy is more important than being thin .	i mostly just do fitness stuff , to stay in shape for lifting .
so do i . i also like to volunteer as much as possible in between wrestling matches .	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
what type of work do you do ?	hmm . i work out at the gym , listen to music and volunteer at the local homeless shelter .
nate the hurrican has pass . my name is tracy and yours ? i am fine .	good morning , its going pretty well how is your day ?
my brother and three sister all live in alabama . any siblings ?	woah ! i live in texas . do you have any sisters or brothers ?
great ! i hope your wife is happy anna . i have two dogs . any pets anna ?	i have 3 big dogs , no kids .
high five ! my cat is named grace !	yes , two dogs and two cats . i also have a two year old son .
get out ! any brothers ? chicken tacos are great !	we must be soul . . brothers or sisters . i am a she .
good . my dog name is earl . he eats tacos too .	chocolate is a favorite ! so many ways to eat it lol
wow ! you ever been to alabama ? great place .	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
hello joan ! i am chrissy from minnesota . i am building a robot for my work .	good how are you doing ? are you in school
this robot will help me because i am allergic to water ! do you enjoy teaching ?	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
that is really interesting . i am actually a recluse ! are you christian yourself ?	oh yes i do . but my passion is teaching
that is nice . do you sing in their choir ? i am known for twitch streaming .	i volunteer at church , god is amazing . read the bible every day . you ?
it is a broadcast software where 45 million gamers gather every month !	if only . it is an awesome game .
i like finance and i am working on selling my game starcraft . walking is fun .	i design video games , so i get to play all day !
the gaming world is very intense . do you also like to go jogging ?	it is extremely fun ! i like it a lot .
hi , all is moving great . thanks for asking	hi , its going well and you ?
i kind of do . mainly online courses for now . and you ?	no , i am a student .
i mainly do computer and engineering related things . do you like swimming ?	i am still a student myself .
interesting . i have not tried that . although , i am not a good swimmer	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
ok . was it that hard to learn ?	even though i like being around water i wish i learned how to swim .
ok . i guess they were patient and helped you out	well both my parents were so they forced me to learn it .
really ? it looks like you must have grown up near water bodies	yes i did that on purpose . they love it too .
cool . it was nice chatting with you . i have to go now . bye	yep that is why i would never live on water
i am okay . i wish my children would visit more , though .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i do , as well . though my husband liked me more when i was younger and prettier .	i am sorry for your spouse .
no , i keep to myself . my housekeeping job is not exactly a social one .	no , tell me about it .
my 56 year old body would not tolerate that much strain .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
my diet is not great . that is probably why i have not aged well .	i try to eat healthy .
you are probably right . i was much healthier when i was a painter .	that is wonderful , and sould healthy .
i do as well . it used to be my career , but i switched to housekeeping recently .	i wish i can paint that . i like painting .
unfortunately , art is not the most lucrative career path . what do you do for a living ?	i am a professional painter .
hey mike here my boyfriend and i are moving in together next week	hi ! what kind of pictures do you take ?
yeah i am interested in taking pictures , of yoda for sure	o yes he is a great artist !
yeah i am fluent in english spanish and french	coffee is the life force .
cool , i taught a few players being an elementary school teacher	i thought you were still in elementary school
yeah it was awesome and i was boss	yes i did i went for a little , you ?
yeah it was okay money , we just made money	let me guess , you also love photography
yeah yeah it sure does my friend	how long have you been taking pictures for ?
yeah it would be nice huh	how long have you been taking pictures for ?
i am fine . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
what country did you move from ?	good how are you doing ? are you in school
awesome . i was born in the usa . going to college for a nursing degree .	y es times are very hard i think about moving to another country .
cool . i work nights at a local bar to pay tuition and food .	i am a college student studying nursing .
nice . having a home must be great . i like to cook at my place . anything but chicken .	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
cool . i have two kids each with blonde hair and blue eyes just like mine .	i make chicken nuggets sometimes when i cook . i am a nurse . any other hobbies ?
yes me too . have a great day .	it was really nice chatting with you . must go . just remember to love .
done . nice chatting with you too .	yeah same . hope you have a great night day .
that is a lot of cats ! i have two dogs .	good how are you doing ? are you in school
i put coats and boots on mine . mom freaks .	do you like dogs ? how about cats ?
no thanks , my brother collects them as well .	nope . might get one sometime . do have pets ? i have a dog and cat .
i sure can . i am homecoming queen again .	sometimes , it depends on the weather .
you should be ! i am training for a 5k	you have a lot of medals ?
i hope so too , i am going to dress up as princess leia .	ice cream ! ice cream is good . what kind do you like ? i like vanilla !
i am only 17 . i am a senior .	i want to look good .
that is okay . i am going to be a physical therapist	how old are you ! i graduated high school not too long ago .
i am ok . mommy says i have to go to bed .	i am good just watching a movie
i do not want too . i want to watch mickey mouse .	i mean she should your her mom right ?
he is not on in the mornings . do you like the movie frozen ?	i will tell him that we should see it ! thanks !
how old is she ? does she go to my school ?	i am only in the 3rd grade so i still watch a lot of cartoons .
i am 8 . is she a cheerleader too ?	she is 7 years of age
i played last season , and then mommy made me do cheer	i think i saw her playing soccer once , so yeah .
i do not . i liked soccer much better .	yes . i cheer is college actually
i am also in dance and that takes up a lot of time .	i played a little bit of soccer in school , but was never really good at it
i never learned how . what do you play ?	i do not do you
i spend most of my time with books in the library ,	oh you play in it ? what instrument do you play ?
most everything , but especially anything to do with traveling .	i like to read but depends on the book really
no , but i have been to spain .	i have been to spain its beautiful
i can bet by . maybe i will learn more when i retire .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
english . how about you ? do you work ?	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
you sound like a smart person who is going places !	i am in college and work in the library .
impressive ! just how old are you ?	i can only speak english and spanish . what do u do for work ?
hello . how was your day ?	hey , i am doing pretty well , you ?
i love fall and wearing fall clothes	hi , its going well . and you ?
i understand . it is very scare	haha are you going to dress up ?
i was kidnapped on halloween . very scary	that is not fun . animals are always good to have around .
i hate cats . dogs all the way	i watch a lot of cat videos though . so that is something .
cats are very boring i think	i love animals , but i have to remind myself i cant keep them all .
i love to make money	i just love the way they look .
hello . i am well , and you ?	hi , i am doing well , enjoying relaxing , you ?
i like metal . how do you feel about coffee ?	i love music !
i love coffee , and i avoid alcohol . it tastes like vinegar to me .	do you drink coffee often ?
not too much , i bike everywhere , to cut down on my footprint .	i own a lot of different cars .
oh no ! my father was almost hit one day at work , he does road construction .	what do you do ? i am also well built all over
yes , it is . that is why i avoid alcohol	i have never had coffee with alcohol in it . what do you do for work ?
i do as well . where did you go to school	i make coffee and brew beer .
hello , how are you ? you seem a little excited today !	hi !
doing fine for a nerd that keeps to himself . i am trying to finish my special project .	hi , its going well and you ?
well , i am working on my body double , it is a robot built from scratch .	what games are you playing ?
a robot that played guitar in the game i helped design . heard of starcraft ?	i prefer designing the games but playing them is a good way to gain inspiration !
no i do not think so . what do you do for a living ?	yes . it is a computer game . do you play games ?
amazing ! i just saw willie nelson in concert last night ! what about spare time ?	i play music for a living
yes , but no sequel . i only drink whiskey because i am allergic to water .	i was on the design team for that game !
it is an easter egg in the game the orange robot plays the guitar .	yes ! it is so annoying .
hi ! that sounds fun . in ww 1 my relative was on a ship	i am in the navy . you have a lot on your hands !
i am currently in the military . army to be exact .	i am in the navy .
i like the color blue . my high schools color was blue .	did you ever serve in the army ?
no , i dropped out before i finished . i donate to some now .	i run a charity for injured veterans in my dads memory . you ?
that is good . it brings good karma	which charities do you generally donate too ? i can help .
poor bunnies . they need love too .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
you should get a dog to keep the badgers away .	i bet . animals get attached .
a blue dog ? now that i would like to see .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
i am find thank you and you lets chat .	i am good just watching a movie
i am from new jersey i like going to amusement park	i am in cali so its evening
i used to be a doctor now retired .	i have never been there . how is it ?
awesome i also like to go to the parks on weekends .	oh what area of the entertainment industry ?
yes twitter is very interesting . nice to tweet .	i take my daughter to the park every day
my little girl is doing child prodigy .	i have got a daughter who loves the things . you take care , alright ?
she is great at make up she is a pro .	she is very kind and smart .
cool i hope one day she makes it .	she is very pretty . do you date ?
hey , how are you ? what are you up to tonight ?	yes , i love it . do you ?
that sounds fun . i am filling out job applications .	hey whats up ?
i am about to go play basketball .	busy person huh ? that is not a bad thing .
wow ! that is amazing , my sister would never try football .	you play ball in high school ?
yea , in my school too , but no girls .	that would be a fun job . are you looking for players ?
you sound very cool . i am about to go to a concert with my sister .	what is your job ? i am still in school .
she just called and wants to take me to see travis scott .	i am going to have lunch soon . do you have favorite food ?
that is good ! i am watching football highlights .	i am well with the kids , how is your evening .
i am a green bay packer fan . do you like football ?	i am a football coach .
how many kids do you have ?	sometimes . but football is really my thing .
i have kids too . i also have a couple pets .	i do not want kids , weird i know . i only want dogs .
i have two dogs . what about you ?	i have 4 dogs , 3 cats , fish and chickens .
i was just looking for a housekeeper for my new house !	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
i jut moved to florida a couple months ago .	i live in canada at this time .
that is sad . i would be upset .	lol ! i am in cali right now . hope to move to canada soon .
hi ! i am doing fine . what are you studying ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
sure ! show me what you have learned .	i wish i could help . what is your qualification ?
great ! what else do you know in spanish ?	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
you are gifted . i want to go to college too someday .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i want to study law . i know it is difficult though .	i study , what about you ?
oh ? what did you not like about the law ?	i want to be a pro musician
i have thought of that , too . do you have hobbies ?	did the establishment pursue legal action , or simply ask you to pay ?
yes , i like mountain biking . it is so much fun !	i enjoy travelling , photography and making music videos
i am doing absolutely great	hello , i am fine , and yourself ?
that is absolutely great just fantastic	you have the right to walk away from things that make you unhappy
i get lonely too sometimes	oh dear , seems like a dark cloud has become over you
hamburgers make me feel better about life .	you have the right to walk away from things that make you unhappy
soda make my tummy hurt	it is kind of my weakness , yes .
i really like walking	i do not eat it , when i could walk a friend bought
maybe you can fly me around one day	i can watch the clouds from my plane ride
yeah that is cool , what is your favorite color ?	i can watch the clouds from my plane ride
i m good ! just been reading some journals on psychology .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i like cheeseburgers . i might get some tomorrow before going kayaking .	hi how are you doing i am fine oh you must rest later .
yes ! everyone should also have basic survival skills like my parents taught me .	i will read what i can about it , thank you so much for all the advice !
do you volunteer at the soup kitchen ?	i have figured out how to make a living walking dogs . fun !
i m not a fan of war . i would rather be in the peacefulness of nature .	sometimes i volunteer there . what do you do ?
are you better off now ?	where did you grow up ?
definitely ! maybe you could walk dogs too .	yes . i love giving back to the community i grew up in .
i can t wait to retire . sadly i have a long way to go .	i would do that too if i was retired . it is a wonderful thing
good , i just started working at a gas station	hi , i am doing well , how about you
yeah , i like it because i use my hands a lot	yes , i am fine , and you ?
nice , that is cool . i like to garden as a hobby	i like to sew and cook . i plant my own veggies and herbs in my garden
i have a dog and a cat yes	no i do not raise animals . do you have any ?
i cannot pick . i love them both	i keep two canines as tamed animals
yeah , i love baked goods !	yes i make all the things i am afraid of
nice . that sounds like a nice job	i bake on occasion its fun . are you married
oh yeah . sounds like bliss	so you like to bake
hi that is ok . i have been retired for years from the computer industry .	apparently i do not work . is there anything else about you ?
i worked on slot machines . i am a avid gambler . what do you do for fun ?	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
i also like to mow my yard on warm sunny days .	i play music when i have spare time .
i love to grill outdoors . maybe you can come visit for dinner .	i would like to have a dog , maybe one day for both of us .
that sounds like a plan .	i m sure she would . if you paid her .
yes , i do lots of chocolate	no i do not but maybe one day .
well i have to go . winter is coming soon . i have to go south for the winter .	yeah i enjoy some chocolate every now and then . whats your favorite food to eat ?
fun , i work as a stand double sometimes , do you like to read	hi ! do you have kids ? i have one . a boy !
i read about 20 books a year , i love it	the only thing i do is read . i do enjoy that
do you go with your family	i love disney movies all time favorite an insatiable reader
how are you typing	ah , you have a child . only one ?
sure , sounds like it ? so you can read at your age	are you even reading what i am typing
ok , well good luck with getting over that	well you should read on your break
ok , so you live with your parents	what is the title of your favorite book ?
house or apartment building living	i have my parents , but no kids . single life !
hi there ! i am doing very well . listening to rock and cleaning . you ?	hello i am good ? do you work
the chili peppers , they are one of my favorites . the horses love it .	i listen to a little bit of everything .
we do . i live on a horse farm .	i have 2 dogs . i could probably live on a farm !
farms are an experience every child should have .	i live on a farm , cool cool .
i do not have any either . maybe one day .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
very nice . what does your fiance do ?	maybe you will fall in love like i did this summer !
very cool . did she ever work with tupac ?	mom . i have a horse . my husband is a businessman .
i do not care for her , or others like her .	tupac is my favorite . he was taken too soon .
hi , i am kenneth and i use short hair , how are you doing ?	hi there . do you have any hobbies ?
wow , that sounds odd , meanwhile i just go to the gym often	good . exercise is good for you . you married ?
that is good , you can be free to have dogs to , i live with two	i want to travel more there , what country do you want to visit most ?
you are ok now , i just eat when i am bored	haha well those are good things to care about , no dogging ya there ma am
you need a hobby now . i love doing the treadmill and rowing machine	yes she is eating right now .
what do you do for a living ?	i love to go to the gym and play games
you can get money doing construction , better than going to the gym like me	i am a construction worker . how about you ?
tell me something else i don not know about you	we all need that i work out for that reason
hi ! anything but chicken , i d say sushi .	hello i am good ? do you work
i d eat it all the time but my undergrad education is pricey	do you work ? i am in school .
i like jazz but my best friend and now roommate plays rock all the time	i like pretty much all bands .
just another blonde hair blue eyed malibu beach kid here !	i am a college student studying nursing .
can t afford any right now . after i finish school and am a nurse want a cat	no , i do not have any pets either .
that sounds nicer than the dive bar that i work at !	i am a college student studying nursing .
i work nights at the bar now and wanna do night shift as a nurse	you should be a nurse . i am a nursing student now .
hello there just came to see what is going on	hey whats up ?
i enjoy walking my pets during the day for exercise	hi how is your weekend going ?
yeah i like to play tennis for a job	wish i had time for that . i do exercise every day though
yeah i became good at it	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
no not at this time and you ?	i do but not professionally just for fun .
oh that is very rewarding	i enjoy cooking . i volunteer at a soup kitchen
i am married to a healer	honestly i do its like helping ppl one last time . any hobbies ?
yeah a little bit for now	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
why do you have that	hello , good to talk to you . i am sorry to hear that
that must be really interesting	my dad drives a truck . he tought me , now that is my career .
did you name him after someone	haha . not in a bad way .
so you adopted him ? that is great .	haha right ! it is a great color .
are you married or for your kid	he died last year .
i am sorry about that	no kids yet , still too young . do you work ?
were you in the military	i am sorry . you married or single ?
my dad is in . i do insurance	i have a job as a secretary for and insurance agency
i am great . what are you up to tonight ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
yeah ? what do you have going on ?	i have been taking care of my family . how about you ?
that does sound like a busy day . i will probably lounge by the pool .	i have been taking care of my family . how about you ?
i am a pro tennis player . i got the pool for the low impact exercise .	i have an indoor pool
me ! i really need a cocktail . it has been a long day .	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
my husband is a doctor an is working out of country right now .	it is ! are you married ?
that is very nice of you . i used to volunteer with my husband .	well , i work hard to provide for my family , but i get something too !
hi , pretty well ! how are you doing today ?	hi , its going well and you ?
so , tell me about yourself	great how are you melody ?
i very much enjoy classical and christian music	i listen to a little bit of everything .
youtube is great , i spend a lot of time looking up youtube videos too	i do alright . i am more interested in you . what kind of music do you like ?
saving money is really important in this day and age	there are so many good channels on youtube . do you like it ?
i am far form that , i drive a tractor and do not mind taking it easy	you mean it is about saving a big part of your salary
not lately , my sister who is an exotic pole dancer really likes her though	no , you do not like spears and she touches me .
i agree i think she is too	i never heard of her .
it was nice chatting as well bye !	well , as long as it is fulfilling to you , very nice talking to you !
hi . no . i am all about my cats . they are so precious .	yes , do you play ?
three . in my off time i am building them a house . just like at my day job .	yes , a cat and a dog . do you ?
mine are smart . construction work for me . what is your job ?	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
family is important . i learned everything i know from my father .	i play sports , almost all of them . what about you ?
you have dogs . how many ?	have a dog so i do get exercise walking him .
good thing your house is big with all of those kids .	i have two dogs and one cat .
that is great . the pay is probably better than mine for sure .	being a house wife is fun , but being a mom will be so much better .
i suppose that is true . i like kids . maybe i will have some someday .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
wow the thing i love most is skateboarding	hi there ! nice to meet you . yes , i have four dogs .
o really my all time fave skater is rob dryden all my friends skate	haha that is funny . you any good ?
what do you like to do in your spare time ?	yeah , man . . . . everyone has their own way of doing things , ya know ?
o that is nice catering for weddings on weekends i love cooking	i listen to music most of the day
yea i try to stay busy but not lately since i broke my arm	it is very fun . anything that involves cooking is .
yea it sucks not being able to skate or cook so tell me about you ?	oh i hope so . i am pretty good at it if i do say so .
nice you must love music then	yea i even started a band
i am ariel so what are you doing for the rest of the night	what is his favorite band , do you know ?
yes lol why is it weird	i skateboard and do normal weirdo things
i am doing well . i am getting ready to go rock climbing .	i am doing great today . just got off of work . you ?
i just have my dog , trooper .	no . i like to be with family .
he is a sweet black lab	hmmm . i daughter and 1 dog . pets ?
he is , we go hiking together a lot .	he is a good sport about it . what do you do for fun ?
that is adorable . i never have , but now i will .	i eat ice cream sometimes . . .
yeah . i am an engineer . maybe i could invent a chocolate that is safe for dogs	dogs are good animals and so friendly .
what do you do for work ?	that is a good idea . most people love dogs .
i am good how about you	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
oh great me , my job really makes me feel bad	i am doing well , now that work is over . how are you ?
40 in a working labor is tough	i am a stay at home mom . my husband makes the money .
and my spouse used all the money i earned	i am just a stay at home wife . my husband makes the money .
sales man for car is what my job	that must pay well . i wish i could work somewhere that pays well .
divorce will make an answer to my wife	music . i love all kinds of music .
oh it is ok that we are	music . i love all kinds of music .
you like this kind of	i like rock music the most . where do you work ?
i hate the dentist ! i work at the nursing home	no , i work too much for kids .
that would be good ! are you married ?	it is difficult , but i hope that it will help me find a good career
how old ? my wife just recently left me with my children	yes , my only child so i am quite protective of her . do you have kids ?
i should . i usually spend my time on facebook	haha ! yeah . so she would encourage you to try again ! !
parks are nice . do you believe in god ? i do not	i love to watch basketball . what do you do for fun ?
well that is good , to each their own i guess	yes , i believe in that sincerely . how is work for you ?
i love enrique iglesias , he is my favorite	yes i love to listen to gospel music .
he is good looking as well , haha	i love singing his songs
i am good and yourself ?	hello , i am well . where do you live ?
fun . i am getting ready to go to work .	i am doing good , so tell me about yourself .
i cannot stand tanning beds , they get to hot .	i am a huge fan of tanning beds .
i cannot wait to move out on my own . my parents are always bothering me	well , they pay great , and you do not have go in anywhere !
i work part time at burger king , so i eat burgers a lot	i do not think i could ever keep to a special diet .
i feel it . like i do not drink or do drugs , just let me live .	that is nice . my parents never really let me do much they just did not care .
dude i feel it . i just want to hang with my friends and enjoy life .	that is an good . maybe you can make friends in a club or on a job ?
now i could go for an iced caramel macchiato	first time makes your skin crawl , at least for me !
hi , how old are you ?	hello , sure . why not ? where are you located ?
older than you , wanna guess ?	i am 20 . how old are you ?
not that old , mid 20 . how is your day anyway	no way . i am still in school . how old are you ?
you must be a positive person ? have you ever done something guilty ? just curious	i am well . . . . got a small problem maybe you can help
well , that is good , but sometimes people just cannot have control over themselves , you know	well , i believe i have just committed a crime .
but it is hard . everytime i tried , it fails	that is why you desire to be controlled . let me control you person one .
well , even though i live with my mom , but she does not have much time for me .	anyone can do it , you just have to try and keep trying .
no , they will say something nice , then just forget it the second day .	i think i could help people like my mom does .
i am in quite a pickle , do you happen to have a nickle ?	i am fine thank you how old are you .
if you visit me on the moon i can give you a birthday present	no , i think it is a good thing ! do you ?
side effects are a frame of mind , not a real physical thing	okay will see if i can make it !
i will build you a spaceship in no time	that explains a lot . do you drink every night ?
i saw a man drink so much booze he drank himself sober	that is way too crazy for me ! i will stay on the ground . ha ha !
i never broke a bone in my body with large amounts of vitamin d	you must live in a larger city . where do you live ?
man everything can be changed through belief , even your dna , change your reality	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
you do not sit in the reality , you are the reality !	that is the truth . nothing stays the same .
i am doing good how are you ?	great , just finished my afternoon yoga . how about you ?
i am from alaska . how about you ?	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
do you meditate ? i love to	i am also a buddhist
i practice buddhism , so i do that a lot .	i am also a buddhist
cool . i have not spoke a word out loud in three whole months	super calm music am a bit of a buddhist . great job .
it is part of my spiritual practice	yes , i believe in that sincerely . how is work for you ?
haha do not worry about me	hey are you spiritual at all ?
that is impressive , have you always been ?	not really unless you consider veganism a religion .
i am good , thanks . what workout do you do ?	i am great , just left the gym .
i actually used to teach gym	no , i do not watch many sports .
i am retired now but trying to keep in shape as i do love my cheeseburgers !	its good to keep in shape , especially since it sounds like your job requires it .
i probably should too . i like documentaries , war mostly .	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
that is so worthwhile . i was pretty poor when i was young .	i want to open a homeless shelter
that is so worthwhile . i was pretty poor when i was young .	absolutely . i really hope your situation gets better financially .
that is so worthwhile . i was pretty poor when i was young .	it was really nice chatting with you . must go . just remember to love .
good just finished doing my daily 3 mile walk	i am well , so tell me about your family ?
o really how many different birds have you seen or n estimate	i read to my kids each night they love it .
thanksgiving i get to see family from far away	haha basically . so what is your favorite holiday ?
italy , spain and from mexico we are all over lol	i have family there , but i am in new england .
yes i just hate passing security everytime or the wait times to get on airplane	yes , i would love to travel the world some day with my family
nice i tried doing crazy hair but i am a delivery nurse so its frown upon	i can see that lol . do you like reading ?
yes here in chicago downtown	yes work at a hospital as a doctor .
me too ! hopefully they win this one but 1 to 1 in the 9th	yes , i would love to travel the world some day with my family
awesome ! i am a twitch streamer , do you think she will come on my show ?	i was on the design team for that game !
sweet ! i am working on a robot , maybe i can make her one as well .	haha ! yeah . so she would encourage you to try again ! !
i am a video game designer , and people say that makes me a recluse .	i could design a video game to teach you
as long as they do not have a water table , i am allergic .	ha ! that would make them pay attention to me for sure !
yuck . i am afraid of spiders .	you should hang out with me ! ! ! we can be friends ! ! ! i do not bite .
no , i did not mention the spider .	i was actually thinking that when you first mentioned it .
yes . but i am not a spider .	yeah , i thought you were someone else .
really ? chocolate ? i disdain the very thought .	hi ! seen any good movies lately ?
how old are you ? what grade are you in ?	oh no ! ! ! that is too funny !
4 and a quarter years ? or four and a quarter decades ?	i am in the 4th grade i turn 10 on dec . 20th .
well miss chocolate , what is your favorite book ?	i enjoy movies , reading books , and even just doing nothing
i am partial to peppa the pig	it s my favorite book ever .
when i grow up i want to polish the sun and the moon	i will be soon hopefully . what about you ?
what do you want to do when you grow up ?	baby ? are you pregnant perchance ?
oh yes , that sounds fun until you have to eat your dinner !	i want a dog but they re too much trouble with having to feed them
hi my name is charlie and i have dark brown curls . and i do fine .	evening , i am well . yourself ?
i ride horses on the weekends and i do not eat meat .	where do you work ? i am in the lime light all of the time .
no clowns for me either i do like purple and green for a bedroom .	ll ! i can see that happening .
right i eat a lot of fruit and nuts and tofu .	every day i have to clean and feed them . where are you live ?
i like to climb trees an play on the playground .	my parents both do . good thing to do .
how old are you i am 52 and i like to travel .	nah , i do not really understand what your trying to say .
blind dates ugh i like to eat sandwiches with mayo and lettuce only	i travel for it .
very young i bet you like to crawl on the floor .	do you use fresh vegetables in your restaurant ?
i am good ! i was just baking cookies . what about you ?	i am great , i am baking cookies ! how are you ?
what happened ? did you get into trouble ?	i like to bake how about you ?
oh no . maybe when i was younger . do you have any pets ?	no , that is just crazy .
one dog sugar . i named her after my famous sugar cookies !	i have a cat , his name is charlie . what would you name your puppy ?
oh ! i take them to my county bake sale . i love it there . where are you from ?	i do like to bake . especially dog treats for my two small dogs .
have you ever tried knitting ? i feel like it is the only thing i have anymore .	i live in the city . what do you do ?
well being as old as me , it takes my mind off my soon impending end .	not as much as some people . not my passion .
do you work at the food bank ? i would love to volunteer sometime	does the future scare you ?
hello , new york . i am ohio . do you like country music ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
how nice , i am a singer .	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
i play guitar , have since three . i would not be happy in a stuffy office .	well , congrats on graduation ! i bet you felt pretty on your graduation day . i want that
i would not know about that , i camp a lot when i am not on the road .	ouch . where do you live ? city or state , i mean .
i do not . i am conservative in my spending .	i do , but i am not very good at it . is it a hobby of yours ?
no , i donate a lot of it to others who have more need for it than i .	yes , but it does not pay very well .
i do not . my fiance is a detective .	money is not everything . do you have children ?
i do not . do i need one ?	no , as a matter of fact i do not . i see no need for it
just finished working in the supermarket	i am doing well . where are you from ?
for a while now since i got my cat	i am great , how are you ? and yes all the time ! perks
spook has been with me since then	i love to play with my cat and dog
just listening to the who music	hobby . what do you like to do in your spare time ?
yes it is and i never went somewhere else	yeah i listen to all kinds what kind do you listen to
work work work and work	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
most likely i do not know how	apparently i do not work . is there anything else about you ?
to have some fun and been stuck	i know right . do you like tatoos
how are you ? i am larry and i love to cook !	i am well and yourself . i have this fetish for cooking for people .
i am great ! i am chef and an avid fisherman .	oh i love to cook ! do you not like it or are you just too busy ?
what do you like to do in your spare time ? i am either cooking or outside .	i am working as a grill cook , but i would like to have my own restaurant some day .
do you have any favorite movies ? i love spiderman ! ! !	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
that sounds awesome ! you have quite a full life .	i do not . i read enough at work .
i read anything with spiderman !	the best way to cook fish !
i love making ice cream ! i make it in the restaurant all the time .	the best way to cook fish !
hola i am great	i am great thank you i am french
yes i am a student intern that studies different languages	i am a dog walker
wow that is awesome . and your trabajo is pretty nice	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
i love to study spanish as you can probably tell , on to french next	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
amazing . do you study and languages	it cannot be fun to kayak if you do it alone .
awe you are missing out spanish is my favorite and trabajo is my favorite word	i can only speak one language !
i never met my parents	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
its ok basically raised myself so its cool	you could always learn . my parents are real big on learning as much as you can
i am okay . i just finished watching an old horror movie	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
it was dracula from 1932	great what movies did your dad star in ?
but the old ones are beter . even my junior high school son likes them	i do not know about that movie
greys are wonderful . what is your favorite movie ?	have you seen the new it movie yet ?
my dad used to see scorpions when he worked at home depot .	i like horror movies !
nascar is exciting . i spent a long time working in human services which was really boring .	i used to want to be a race car driver when i was a kid
i love dogs . i have a sweet rescue dog .	yes ! i love movies about dogs ! do you like dogs ?
okay . it was great talking to you .	ha ha ! it was nice chatting with you !
it is going well . how are you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
i used to be a painter , i still like to do that a lot . how about you ?	i draw and paint things
how old are you ? do you have any children ?	i love to cook , but my husband is gone a lot and we do not have kids .
i am 56 . what do you do for a living ?	yes i do i have 34 grand kids
i am a housekeeper , not very exciting .	i am an accountant . what do you do ?
i hear you . what do you like to cook ?	i am a professional painter .
sounds good to me ! nothing better than a hamburger cooked really well .	i enjoy painting . i am also a good cook .
cool . riding horses is my thing .	i ride horses while on my year off before college .
you are married ? i will finish high school in two years .	that would be cute . i am sure that i could .
how romantic ! i get teased by girls at school .	i do not play any sports . can you tell me more about sports you play ?
that is kind of you . you want a kid with curly brown hair ?	i might consider having kids of my own when i finish grad school next year .
i will need a bedroom painted in purple and lime green though .	kids like purple though . are you married ? i am a newlywed .
that is the color of my room now . love it .	i am sure i will love the house too .
very bold colors ! do you have a mohawk too ?	i am sure i will love the house too .
my kind of guy ! he will make a great stepdad .	i have a blond mohawk . haha . and a 7 inch goatee .
i love going to church and owing dogs .	hi ! my sunday is going well so far . how is your day ?
as a woman and a school teacher i feel very powerful	i like the pants you guys have to wear . do you have any pets ?
you got a good taste , winter is coming too	i lead a normal life , 2 dogs and a wife .
glad you understand how i feel . what do you do ?	its good to keep in shape , especially since it sounds like your job requires it .
i am skinny too , it makes me feel good	i play music , and video games .
me too , video games are great	do you attend church ?
do you like dogs ? i have two .	video games are awesome . do you have any kids
i love eating burgers with lettuce	yes , i don t like dogs really
hi ! i eat very cleanly .	hi , i am doing well , how about you
yup love it . i also survived cancer though .	yes . i like to eat .
yes it was hard . i love to run . how about you ?	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
that is fine . i also like preparing for marathons .	i am trying to make money running marathons .
it is . promoting is one of the hardest one .	yes . i feel like it is fulfilling though .
promoting the marathon to all the people and the awareness is really a pain	i am trying to make money running marathons .
yes . it is always for a cause and always a pleasure .	no , i try to stay in shape . i even run as many marathons as i can .
thanks what do you do though ?	yes . i feel like it is fulfilling though .
so tired . just laying on the couch reading my weekly book . you ?	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
that sounds fun . i wonder if i could do that while pregnant ?	i enjoy music and reading . anything except that awful country .
i like some of it . it is popular here in pennsylvania .	yes . i do not like country though .
do you like movies ? i live documentaries .	i love dogs ! just turn some music on .
do you work at all ? i have been working a pa job a few months .	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
that sounds great ! my weekly goal of reading a new book keeps me busy .	my husband stays with kids onthe weekend . then i work m f at my other job
that sounds like fun too !	i would rather read a good book . you seem nice .
i cannot wait to have this baby . she is my first .	i have two dogs , and they sometimes come on set with me !
my name is jerry . i farm bees for a living . you ?	i like that name , ahahah
yes , i like to cook too . but i am not a pro like you	i love to cook ! it is one of my favorite hobbies .
yes , i fly fish . i love it . i wish i could invite my family	everyone seems to like the food i cook . i do not have much experience with fish , though .
i have no family close to me	of course might as well pay family members .
i like spawn and the x men	yes i do . i actually really enjoy it .
he is a good character for sure	you mean , you do not like his books ?
ha that sounds good ! what is your favorite food ?	i am sure he does like it . what else do you do ?
nice . my favorite is a fruit papaya !	italian food is my favorite ! how about yourself ?
hello i am from california . i am good and yourself ?	hi there , i am doing great thanks . where are you from ?
oh should go to cali . i love living here . where have you travelled ?	great ! you cook anything wild ?
i thought about being a chef for the army	i have traveled all over the world .
i do not . i cook a lot of seafood like shrimp , catfish , etc	i do not but i have thought about it .
ha ha did not meant to get you hungry . i like to fish .	i travel for shrimp fishing job . i love them dipped in bbq . . do you ?
what were you going to school for ?	you mean besides food and water not really . i study so much .
really ? i am sorry to hear that . i always loved school	did not school start already for you ?
hi , i am great , how about you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
cool ! do you twitter ? i browse the internet a lot .	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
if you have never chatted with a feminist , you can say you have now .	plus i imagine it allows you to pursue your hobbies !
lol . have you heard of solar panels ? i have them on my roof .	this is how trump makes money ?
i live in a tiny home and all my food i buy is organic .	i think there are . blogger ? lol
wow , small world . i am a vegan too . that was nice of your daddy .	you must do a lot online .
that is a good man are you going to follow in his footsteps ?	i see . i donate my money and time to charity . does she with her money ?
that could be a good profession , too . i am retired at 32 .	i am an animal activist . do you have any animals ?
i am just fine . my name is priya , and you ?	its okay , we have come to terms with the loss . how are you ?
not so bad , just listening to some death metal . you ?	i am doing ok , hanging in there .
i supposed , but i do not listen to them . can you swim ?	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
i do not live close to the water , but i am a swim coach in delhi .	i love the water . ocean , lake or river ?
yes , i am a free spirit , but my mom is so traditional . where are you from ?	yes , i like swimming . what is you favorite hobby ?
one day i want to go to america . it can be sketchy here .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
in the news paper when someone dies they put the body in the paper to identify	i do travel some i go to india quite a bit .
i am healthy thank you dirk	i hope that you are still able to live a full life .
i hope it is a healthy snack . i am doing well , just moved here .	hi , i am fine how are you ? where from ?
i too am vegan from germany . have you seen lafer ! lichter ! lecker ! on tv ?	i live in southern california , right near the ocean .
they do amazing things with the hummus . where is back home for you ?	yes ! i watch back to back videos of it all the time !
we are long lost twins ! will you go skydiving with me ?	i do love traveling ! where are you from ?
the roller coasters here do not compare to that of heide park .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
you are a delight ! we shall travel the world looking for the best roller coasters .	ha ha ! it was nice chatting with you !
that is funny . enjoy your snack and we can speak again soon .	haha , yeah ! i like that !
if ever you are back in germany let us meet at the heide dorf .	ah ha ! enjoy while you can !
hello , i am very well . and you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
i do , i love metallica , i never heard them in india .	no not really i like all music .
they are great too . so are the chili peppers .	i love music . my other interest is swimming .
i am in college , studying it .	i work at a pool , but i do not know how to swim . what do you do ?
very nice . i would love to travel .	computer sciences . i work as a software engineer .
i am looking at a house as well .	i would love to travel as well .
i would like children and a husband one day .	i hope thw travel was easy . do you have any kids ?
oh no . i prepare traditional dishes .	haha yes , so i can be a mom ! i am very proud of my husband .
hello . my hopes and dreams are to spend time with friends having fun .	no idea . i wish i had a good plan .
that sounds like fun . i work at burger king and i still live at home at 19 .	that is awesome ! ! i hope you do well if that is what you want to do .
i just want to move out . they are always on my back .	i know i need to move out of my parents house , i am 30 !
maybe i will help more . i do not do anything wrong . . . no drugs . . . nothing	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
why thank you . that sure does mean a lot .	yeah , my parents have helped out alot .
i am sure you still are ! it is the insides that count !	yeah you mentioned that . sorry to here !
i bet you are a wonderful painter . i like to paint .	i paint a lot in my free time .
popularity and money are not everything .	i paint a lot in my free time .
i am from the land down under	hi how are you today ? i am well thanks for asking .
like i said i am form the land down under	yes . i was born in california .
my mom is a dentist	yeah that is a tough one , i am not sure myself !
she thinks she is a real doctor	yea that is true . that must be a hard job , but very rewarding .
i lost my front teeth playing basketball	moms a dentist , i cannot help her .
yeah some woman who calls herself a doctor replaces them	no . i went right into the work force
my mom is dead to me	moms a dentist , i cannot help her .
lol you are so lucky	you said your mom mean that is so sad
i am well , how about yourself ?	hello ! i am good and you ?
i see . i just got home from work , actually . we are on separate schedules !	hi , its going well and you ?
that sounds great . i just moved here from germany , so the time zone is very different .	i love animals ! i have one dog .
what hobbies are you into ? i love rollercoasters , skydiving , and swimming . though i am a bad swimmer .	if i could go to school , i would do something to travel the world .
how fun ! what foods do you enjoy ? i am vegan and love hummus .	i like to go kayaking .
that sounds so gratifying ! i will not eat meat , but that sounds fun .	yea , i am a real carnivore now . raw .
haha , yes . we can eat a pot roast !	that is so true ! good thing we live now , right ! ll
i am a software engineer working for boeing . i just moved stateside to live with family .	i work at a pool , but i do not know how to swim . what do you do ?
hello ! i am doing well , thanks . yourself ?	hey , i am good thanks , and you ?
that must be beautiful ! i am just playing some guitar , being a musician can be boring .	i can only speak english and spanish . what do u do for work ?
i bet . luckily , i do other stuff like study languages to keep me occupied .	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
that is exciting . do you know any languages ? i am learning spanish .	i do want to move to spain , study there and then teach english there afterwards though .
i am not great at speaking yet , but my favorite word in spanish is trabajo !	spanish is actually already one of my languages
haha ! i wish i had some tacos . trabajo means . . . . . . work ! !	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i teach music lessons to kids and young adults .	i speak english and french and spanish fluently
hi how are you doing that sounds great .	i am doing well , thank you . and you ? how is the weather ?
not old you are still young try 50 i am getting old .	i am 32 , how old are you ?
yes i like and love all animals i have three cats .	no cats , at least inside
oh they are great for company just like family .	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
i have a collection full of hats and have 1000 of them .	i like traveling , especially to see family . you ?
i like to dance do hair and make up and cook .	it is my favorite season for the games !
i am not working right now my best season i would the winter .	i am a freelance artist .
i also have a weakness for tasty vanilla ice cream .	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
so far so good , how about you ?	good morning , its going pretty well how is your day ?
same , i was hoping to get work done outside today but that is not happening .	it is a beautiful night , how are you
i would not say a lot , just fall cleanup stuff	no , i work too much for kids .
what is your name by the way ?	why ? it is there fault .
george , nice to meet you jason . i am from ny . what about you ?	my family from italy but i live in america . how about you ?
what do you do for work ?	i am in virginia , but love visiting places .
do you like honey ? i farm it . it is not very exciting either	i work in a factory . you ?
i hate heights ! i am mandi	hi . what do you do for fun ?
sounds fun ! i do not work , i volunteer at a food bank periodically	i do not currently work .
no mine are pretty cool good thing too because i love to party	no i do not raise animals . do you have any ?
that is crazy ! do you have any pets ?	they hate cats ? i have no dogs
aww ! i have a cat , gizmo and a dog , dixie	no , i do not have any pets . what are some things you like
i bet she is beautiful !	awww how sweet . that is the definition of good dog
my fox terrier is also very hyper	she is always cute because she gives you all the affection of a mom
i was thinking of walking the dog , and you ?	no i do not plan to it is a little overrated to me
i am doing very well thank you . how are you ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i have three kids who need to get to soccer practice .	yes , i am fine , and you ?
no one would want to live forever . it would be quite boring .	i can imagine . i would like to experience that type of life .
that was a much better world . i do not like all of this electronics	i bet , what is your favorite season ?
that is the way things need to get back to .	i could live on chocolate cake and milk . lol
i always do . i am very close to my kids and my bonus kid	i probably spend way too much time working
it was the best thing i ever did . we are both on round too .	are you close with your family ?
we do , and we love to travel .	vanilla . . . . ? i take that back . is it chocolate ? ?
hello there i hope you are having a great weekend	hi ! do you have kids ? i have one . a boy !
i like to read a lot , i read all the time	i like watching movies with the wife .
i like movies a lot , documentaries mostly	i love going to movies . what is coming out that you want to see ?
oh , that is rough , it is hard to swim while pregnant	i love going to movies . what is coming out that you want to see ?
i am having my first child with my husband	i can understand that ! you married ?
not yet , i am hoping for a boy , my husband want a girl	yep . and we have a beautiful 3 year old daughter . you ?
i just started a job too , three months ago in pennsylvania	i am happy for you . i hope my kids are happy in the future .
consultation , at a big business firm	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i am doing good , how are you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
that is great ! i just became a life coach since yesterday .	i am doing great and that is cool . you ?
thank you , how much did you pay for the house ?	there is nothing wrong with that !
yes that is a lot of money , are you athletic ?	i see ! must make a lot of money for yourself !
what sports do you do ? me and my parents were both athletic and so am i .	i am trying to be . i eat a really big diet with a lot of protein .
what is badminton , i have never heard of it ?	i have to stay healthy , trying to play basketball internationally !
wow , i would love to try it sometime , it sounds cool .	badminton and basketball , even though i am not very good at the latter .
great ! about to go get some tacos ! how are you ?	i am doing well . i live in alabama
i am a dog trainer , my sisters and i opened a service !	i work with my two brothers .
nice ! do you have siblings ? i have 3 older sisters and one little brother .	that is where i work !
love them ! i go to alabama fest every year ! its down the road from my house .	yes , i do . what about you ? also any siblings ?
do you have strict parents ?	i cant imagine spending so much time on the road .
well that is nice ! do you play sports ?	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
really cool ! is that where you live ?	i played for a few years . i prefer it over football any day .
yes yellow is fine how are you doing i am okay .	i am good and i do not drink coffee , so i cannot help you with that
it is okay cool i used to play football in school .	i do not play any sports . can you tell me more about sports you play ?
i am disabled now so i drink coffees and stay home .	i am a high school football coach . i played all through college .
great me too i like writing poetry very creative . unique .	do you like coffee ? i like to drink coffee .
i also am a big fan of the star wars movies the old ones was good .	yes . i love to read and write . it keeps me inspired .
that is okay we all have our differences in likes .	are your stories about football ? if so , i would like to read one .
i write poetry and then make them into a song .	i agree . i do not like football much either .
yes thank you so much you are an awesome friend .	haha , i would like to write a book . i would need a lot of coffee for that .
hello , thanks . mine is great . how is yours going ?	good evening its going well . how are you ?
wow , so sorry to hear about that .	it is going good , yours ?
that is sad , like something taylor swift would sing about . i love her .	well i am sorry . it was for the better though if that was the case right ?
i do not have kids . my nissan pathfinder can really act crazy though !	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
i manage a convenience store . i would like to have kids someday .	i do not have kids so i do not know , sorry .
when i was in nashville i bumped into taylor swift in the bathroom !	good advice . how many children do you have ?
shy . i just had my mouse brown hair cut short and did not feel pretty .	yes . i am so sorry about that . i hope you take my advice .
that is so sweet ! thank you ! you are an incredible person .	i think you are right ! thank you very much !
i think we are all beautiful and special in our own way .	i think you are right ! thank you very much !
i agree . be positive , claim your power , and live life to the fullest !	good comparison ! ! that is actually a flattering comparison for me .
even though i have lived on earth for 100 years , i have not heard anything better .	yes , i will have to listen to it one day
i am too old to drive . i was around when nobody owned a television !	i drive a bmw x5 .
i used to drive a muscle car . i am so old , i may never die !	well i drive the most expensive car you could imagine
do you sell wine in your store ?	i see ! must make a lot of money for yourself !
i love wine , especially while dancing outside at night !	yes ! do you sell that ?
that is a healthy hobby . i dance and keeps me very strong , especially for my age .	what part of the country do you live in ?
i feel so young ! i want to pick up more hobbies .	only as old as you let yourself become , right ?
i wonder if you need a license to be a wine reviewer .	that would be exciting . whats your favorite drink ?
good , i was just finishing looking thru my closet for old items .	i am good . how about oyu
yes . i found my old lite brite from the eighties . it was my fav . toy .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
very cool . i had one of those .	i have never heard of that one !
i work with computers . but once a week i take dancing lessons .	i am a student , and unemployed . what about you ?
same here . i was born in 1981 but i have never had a drink .	sok . i get that a lot as well .
i agree . what kind of music do you like ?	i also hang out with friends .
i like pop . new kids on the block , my favorite .	rock mostly . do you have a favorite artist or band ?
evening roland , i am shariah . i am fine , how are you ?	hello , just fine what about you ?
sending good luck your way . i am a dancer but i love to eat .	great ! you cook anything wild ?
i love contemporary and hip hop , but i am currently studying ballet .	i like to dance . how about you ?
no they died in somalia before my aunt helped me escape to the united states .	no siblings for me . are you married ?
the man i was forced to marry was a dentist . are you married ?	moms a dentist , i cannot help her .
he was nice , i am divorced now though . what job are you looking for ?	was but was unwilling to be an extension of his mother , so . . . . . .
i am sorry you did mention . i teach dance to troubled youth .	i work at a beautiful upscale restaurant , you ?
i do care . i love to give back anyway i can . what about you ?	i bet that will help lots of people in the world .
i watch tv does that count ? lol	i like to work on cars its fun
yep i believe it does lol where do you work ? i work at home	i see , you like gambling ?
sounds wonderful ! i am trying to finally get a steady relationship	i do not have any hobbies . just devoted to my work but does not pay off
i live in ohio , and you ?	i live in california .
awesome ! i wish i did , but i spend a lot of money on cars	i own a lot of different cars .
yes that is fun ! i go to the gym often to socialize	so you get to spend a lot of time together !
both seem like fun hobbies !	ah . it is fun . i like to go in my spare time off .
what is your favorite thing to grill ?	we have a hobby in common !
hi , i am justin . i am on tour and just came in from a performance	hello ! i am good and you ?
it is my life . i was born into it . both of my parents are musicians	why are you looking for a job then ?
great . very good to start young . i have been playing guitar since i was three	do you like music ? and she might be , where do you live ?
i schedule stops at national parks . maybe you both could come to a show	do you like music ? and she might be , where do you live ?
what do you try to do in your free time ?	that would be fun ! maybe next summer i could do that as a job
i like watching old westerns when i am not rehearsing .	i love to watch movies on friday nights .
not really anything special . i like to cook for my crew . that is about it .	sometimes i wish i could go back to working in the entertainment industry .
yes , i like wii gymnastic games because its my best sport .	yes , i love it . do you ?
you like garlic bread ? i do and i go to the gym everyday .	what is your favorite video game ?
interesting ! i look good in anything yellow . what about you ?	i wonder if you are a real person , or a robot .
cool ! my toy robot is an olympian just like me . wierd huh ?	yes . it is a good way to put on muscle . do you ?
yes i love to twitch dance . do you twists . twisting gives you a good workout .	i wonder if you are a real person , or a robot .
thanks for sharing that . i want some italian food today . you hungry ?	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
right ! do you workout or just play on websites ? do people generally dislike you ?	i eat pretty much all day . probably not a good thing .
oh you got jokes huh ? people are disposable objects . what your favorite color ?	a lot of people are actually .
that is great ! are you going to college ?	what are you going to school for ?
that is kind of similar to the way i eat , i can only eat kosher	you might try turning it into a career .
kosher means that it has been blessed by a rabbi	i love to eat chicken nuggets . very very much . is that a hobby lol
it is very rad .	i know , its perfect !
i have done it my whole life . i was raised jewish by my single mother	i am not sure really its been so long
that sounds interesting .	same , i use it for everything in my life , even work
i am usually pretty proactive when i go out to eat . i call ahead and check	haha . not in a bad way .
it can be . i eat out a lot because of my job .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
eww boys are gross ! i like playing with my classmates at playtime	i am doing great . getting excited for my yearly disney world trip
how old are you now ?	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
i am in third grade . do you have a favorite place ?	i am young . . . i do not know any better !
flowers are so pretty . my favorite place is disney .	i also really like flowers gardens , planting , and of course receiving them
i get to see all my favorite characters ! my parents take me there every year	we like any disney movie . actually going there next week with the kids .
they are nice except when i get in trouble . do you have a favorite movie ?	yeah movies are pretty cool ! i love animated ones , especially disney and ghibli
i like frozen , i know all the words to to the songs !	yeah movies are pretty cool ! i love animated ones , especially disney and ghibli
i do speak multiple languages . which ones do you speak ?	no do you speak another language ?
those happen to all be languages i speak . i want to visit france sometime .	yes languages . i am mostly unsociable . i believe it is a male thing .
i think it would be nice . what are some of your hobbies ?	i always wanted to visit there . i bet it is beautiful .
i love planning world domination . i also like knitting .	i hike , read , craft . what about you ?
hopefully within the next few years . i am 55 so the sooner the better !	i hope to travel the world some day .
i would love to . i enjoy large attractions .	yes that would be great ! when can i come visit ?
definitely the mona lisa ! i used to be a painter .	i would like to some day , maybe paris . every female dream .
hello . how are you and where are you from ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
i live on a michigan farm . i love to drive the tractors .	are you christian ?
i am into calmer things . i love classical music and nature .	my absolute favorite is the bible .
i really like kids but do not have any . i am twenty four and want four kids .	yes i love to listen to gospel music .
my parents are also great .	cool . my father helps watch my child and is also a preacher .
yes . i do a lot of work on the farm . i work on and drive the tractors .	yes i love to listen to gospel music .
that is good . home maintenance is important .	do you have anyone in your family who is a preacher like my father ?
i want to do what my parents do and farm .	my father has a very important job , but i would rather do something i love .
doing well thanks . getting ready for work and volunteering tomorrow .	hello its going good . . . u ?
that sounds lovely . i get to spend time at the rabbit rescue .	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
this is a local place . i donate a portion of my check each month .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
i work at the shipyard , now that i am out of the navy .	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
that is interesting ! i continued at the shipyard because of my dedication to the water .	that is ok i learn mandarin when i was young because i am from china .
when i was younger , my favorite color was blue like the water .	ha ha ! yes chocolate is a necessity in life !
i believe so . i try to be close to the water always .	lol blue is . that is why i like being around the water .
does the chocolate help you in some way ?	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
i am good . how are you ? my name is rob .	hi doing great , how about you ?
what did you read ? i like to read too . i also love to garden .	hello good and you ?
carrots ! i also like working manually with my hands . do you work ?	i like all kinds . what do you grow ?
be careful . i just got hired . it is a nice gas station .	i do but not professionally just for fun .
two days . also i keep getting set up on blind dates by my father .	45 years . it has been alot
yes i like women but scared of clowns because of trauma in childhood .	i am sure he does like it . what else do you do ?
i was adopted to two older people who dressed up as clowns to scare me !	what happened and why are not you close to him ?
yes i stil have nightmares about it . is there anything else you want to talk about ?	i know . its for you silly clown .
hi ! i enjoy classical music .	i like gospel songs listen to them all the time what about you ?
yes it is ! how is your family ? my sisters profession is pole dancing	yes , i listen to gospel music and slow jams .
yeah she likes it . says its a great workout . what do you do ? .	has your sister changed her favorite color ?
that sounds like a hard job . i am a christian teacher	i volunteer at church , god is amazing . read the bible every day . you ?
aw man , that really must be hard .	i guess that is true for anything , hard work and discipline get results .
aw man . are you ok	its nice that you are brave enough to do that sort of thing .
that is hard . do you like your job ?	i am sorry to hear of your injury .
do whatever makes sure your safe	yes , but it is not that great . i wish i could quit .
well good afternoon there brother	i am also a buddhist
i actually care . what is your favorite color ?	i am also a buddhist
you need to take the red pill	i love the color purple .
i only need to meditate	why ? i teach yoga , maybe that can help .
i reside in the north . alaska specifically	oh no . i would help , i was raised buddhist and that is what we do
it is surprisingly hot here	i live in southern california , right near the ocean .
i go to alaska to meditate	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
i pray to buddha and i get rich	is there good money in it ? i teach yoga at the y
nope , i work in a hat shop 24 7 . my name is sophie by the way .	no , i admit i do not .
maybe i will see if my sister needs volunteers at the bakery where she works .	do you like dogs ? how about cats ?
you sound like a kind person .	you should look at a shelter . those cats are the most in need
i find that ice cream makes everything better .	you should be . those things are always difficult .
good thing i love running . i actually have an olympic gold metal for running .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
it is a family owned business . i broke my leg and so i work there now .	i am currently self employed .
that is okay . it was so long ago . i like my work now .	oh , i am sorry . do you miss it ?
do you use a gym , your own living room , or the great outdoors ?	i am sorry , that is not something i can do currently .
i love bunnies but i am busy moving into a new apartment with my boyfriend	no , maybe i will someday , you ?
the navy sounds tough . i teach elementary school .	i love to photograph animals and people .
i would like to take pictures of the bunnies . do you help alot of rabbits ?	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
i just enjoy photography and the colors red and silver .	i enjoy photography and taking pictures .
your bunny sounds adorable . bunnies are very gentle and quiet animals	those are great colors as well !
yes i am excited about the move . thank you for your service	yes . we all live together
it is a challenge . i teach english spanish and french	yes , i am a photographer
i would love too . i hope i could help the wonderful creatures	i can always do it later , from photographs .
great ! i am traveling round the world for a year .	i am good . do you have pets ?
it is cool . i have a yacht . when i am not using it , i rent it out .	i do not get to travel often , but if so that sounds wonderful !
oh . maybe i can help . i like to cook , although i am no expert .	being poor i have tried a lot of ways to cook for cheap .
lasagna is delicious . i have been testing different foods on my trip .	no kidding . i think we have the best food in the world .
hmmm . . . i would like to try that as well .	oh yes mediterranean food is the best , so fresh and so much flavour
currently docked at the isle of man .	in florida , i live right on the water .
you should rent out my yacht when you are ready to travel .	i live on a yacht off catalina island . where do you live ?
pets are welcome . hope they do not get sea sick though !	pets are not allowed where i live , unfortunately .
great . i have a few minutes until i go to work at the supermarket .	hello there . i am doing pretty well and you ?
you are a kind person . what state to you live in . i am from ohio .	that is wonderful , you will help so many animals !
i would like to see new york . i have never travel out of ohio .	i have never been there . do you have any pets ?
i have a pet cat named spook and i do not have a pet sitter .	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
this is a very strange coincidence .	i have a dog and a cat . do you have any pets ?
i love string instruments . such beautiful music .	she does like pizza . i could set you up
i am hungry . i want to get lost in a pizza with black olives right now .	you seem quite focused on music .
too much cheese for you ?	you better believe it . load up that pizza with all kinds of meat . power pizza .
hi i am a pretty outdoorsy person	hi , i am good eating dinner ?
yeah that is smart i do a lot of kayaking	haha , are you in school ?
i am still in school at graduate school	i am a student at asu
i am studying science cause i love nature	i am in school still .
yeah its great i am also into animals	i am actually still in school studying science what about you ?
i work with dogs so i guess those are my faves	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
i like to camp a lot and test my survival skills	i love to learn about anything i can
that is nice do you compete a lot	i like to go kayaking .
i am fantastic , how are you doing ? ?	hello i am fine and you ?
coffee is tasty , but i am a chocolate bar lover myself .	hi good and you ?
i enjoy playing ping pong ! what do you like to do for fun ?	i play piano and guitar
exciting ! how do you feel about electricity ?	i like to go to movies , listen to music , take vacations !
my father has taught me a lot about it , he is an electrician .	tell me about it ! what do you do for fun ?
brown like chocolate of course ! do you speak other languages ?	pink , of course ! do you have a favorite color ?
to bad , we could be chatting in chinese !	mandarin . china will own the 21st century
no , i learned at home .	ahhh . i said ni hao at the beginning i learned from my father is in china
hi i love watching tv you ?	i go the gym and watch movies . i am a pretty fun loving person .
that sound like alot of fun i go to the gym alot .	do you work ? i make money that i have not told anyone about .
that is cool i love animals .	i also have pets , i have two dogs .
i do work at home on the phone .	mainly maintenance of mechanical systems . i like to be able to not pay for anything . you know ?
i drive a bmw i like spending money on it .	i like to drive my car around . unfortunately i just leased it out
that is cool i like green .	i drive a bmw x5 .
i like all of them but mostly treadmill .	i love to go to the gym and play games
that sounds really interesting . i have climbed a wall before it is not easy .	it is a good workout and easy on the body and mind .
hello , do you like classic cars ?	yeah , and drive a refurbished mustang
i drive classic mustangs , they are amazing .	yeah , and drive a refurbished mustang
i have dogs , two of them . sadie and isabel .	i also have pets , i have two dogs .
rabbits are so fluffy . i would love to have one .	my pets are two dogs .
does he do any tricks ? do you walk him like a dog ?	i do not listen to him , i am into country concerts .
i have seen some that are , like the pot bellied pigs .	yes , he is my dog . i could not live without him . do you have pets ?
my cousin feeds his bacon .	dogs and pigs get along . you should bring them to this pig farm .
the pig likes it . they eat snakes too .	well smoked pig , is the best . ever been to a pig roast ?
no kidding ! i am in it ! same gig for 15 years !	i love programming , so much so i am in school to be a computer engineer
i enjoy country like any real man .	i guess so , i like all music !
florida . i own a home there . 2 kids , a dog a lady .	i am from california , but just moved to florida . what about you ?
well i hope you namaste here ! get it ?	awesome ! i have never been to india . where do you live now ?
i do not share this , but i like to knit .	i do not have any hobbies . just devoted to my work but does not pay off
and you ? what do you do ?	we have a hobby in common !
do you have any kids ?	mostly listen to music . do you like music ? ! ? ! ?
no , but i have been in the caribbean .	i am in florida but i travel to india frequently . you ?
hope you are having a good evening . where are you from	hi ruth , my name is sky and i love to find new uses for old things
are you homesick or enjoying your experience	i am from california , and you ?
i am sure you are busy . do you feel your work is your true calling ?	i think so ! i stay busy .
i love music . have you enjoyed tom petty ? so sad about his passing	yes , i love music ! what about you ? any favorites ?
congratulations on your wedding . how long have you known your partner ?	i used to listen to his music all the time in high school !
i wish you all the best . do you have great conversation	congratulations on marriage 10 years is a long time .
i am from west virginia usa . are you going to have a big wedding ?	i am originally from columbus . you ?
yes i am a huge fan	yes , i love horror movies
friday the 13th and wrong turn . you ?	yes and i love all the movies
cool . . . when i have a break from my horse farm i like to watch movies	horror movies are a good way to take your mind of of things
i own a ranch and i am in law school	i stay home to take care of the kids .
just my second , it will all be worth it though	i am going to be a lawyer .
hard work pays off . i hope he is successful after he graduates	yeah i am also in school so its a lot of work but worth it
you seem like a really cool dad	yes it is hope he gave you what you needed in life
you are very welcome and thanks	you do all the work for rich attorney then , yes ?
hello , just came back from my trip to europe . i go there twice a year ! you ?	hi how are you
do you like cooking ? i always cook paella and fish and chips ! i love them !	i like to travel an eat lol
well cooking is like an art , i majored art in college and it is really exciting !	yes ! i absolutely love to cook as a hobby . do you go to school ?
have you heard of christopher columbus ? i am a descendant of his family !	you must love food ! i enjoy eating too !
salad are a great way to keep your weight !	yes , especially when someone eats the way i have .
yeah i usually visit history museums when i go to europe .	we eat a lot of it !
yeah they got a lot of great looking clothes !	i go to museums every chance i get
not bad . lucky to have computer time here .	hi , its going well and you ?
nothing since i got locked up . what do you do ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i should do that . need to find volunteer work when i get out .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
shoplifting . i have a month left .	i am too old for prison . ai not got time for that !
not sure . have any ideas ?	i study people like you . in and out of prison
my mom always brings that up . she is visiting tomorrow .	probably maybe one day ! i can hope , anyway . why are you not happy with school ?
not sure anymore . the same things do not sound good . getting old .	it is my absolute favorite food .
i am 56 years old and i am a housekeeper	hi . i am a bit older and already have two children .
yes , i love painting , i used to be a painter , but i went to housekeeping	i like to pain pictures , you ?
i love hearing the violin , and the guitar is kind of cool as well	i enjoy playing the violin . do you have a favorite color ?
no , i used to play tennis , but not anymore	not professionally , but i play . do you do any sports ?
i sprained my ankle and i do not want it happening again	i used to love playing that sport actually when i was a teenager
i know that has to be fun , how do you win against your opponents ?	i have always wanted to play but could never get it
that is understandable , do you have any children ?	haha fair enough . do you get in fights when you play ? i have never lost on
yes , as a matter of fact , i have two grown children , but they never come to visit	yes i do i have 34 grand kids
i am well . how about yourself ?	hi ! i am good . you ?
me too ! i try to make it as often as possible . i work a lot .	hi ! i am doing well . how are you ? what music do you like ?
i produce music for rap artists mainly .	i am a video game tester .
i do not get a lot of promo gear .	yes , i wish i could own one ! do you have any hobbies ?
add a man bun and my 2015 honda civic and you have me	you should go for it , fashion is hot ! !
only if you love pizza as much as i do .	yep , unlike the video games . haha
good thing they make stretchy skinny jeans ; leggings are stretchy too !	yes so is rap for me . believe it or not
she is not mean skinny jean . she just wanted a taste . new song	yes so is rap for me . believe it or not
cool . i have a motorbike . do you drive ?	i am from california a blue state haha . and you ?
oh , i always wear a helmet to protect my head . what do you do for a living ?	yes . do you drive a car ?
i see , i waitress during the day to help supplement my income . do you like tanning	i am a single unemployed mom at the moment . but read tons of book .
i do not tan , i have very light skin with big brown eyes .	yes i do it myself and change colors when i want .
my motorbike is red with a blue stripe and shiny when i race !	i really like doing special effects makeup as well .
i am sorry , what was that ?	i like to work on cars and to travel
i love it , i love how shiny it is	i like riding my bike . i do it everyday .
yes i do , red is one of my favorite colors	i definitely love the colors , yes .
nice , i am currently taking a break from working on my vintage car .	good . just listening to some country music . you ?
sounds interesting ! i usually go to country music concerts on the weekends .	we have lots of weekend places to dance to country music here in pa .
that is funny , i have to vintage cars with radios set to my favorite music . country .	i love country ! and hip hop .
that is funny . i could eat a donut while i work on my vintage cars .	oh yes . sounds like so much fun . ets eat donuts
i could drive you to get some in one of my two vintage mustangs .	oh yes . sounds like so much fun . ets eat donuts
sure , as long as you tell me all about donuts . you made me laugh so hard .	yes , love it . great band .
sounds awesome . do you dress up for these events ?	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
just enjoying my amazing grandchildren , and the great weather .	hey there , i just got off work , you ?
oh wow , i am old too . i do not even own a smartphone .	how old are you ? i have a few grandchildren ages 7 30 !
i do ! and , i still sew my clothes myself .	yes all the time since i retired .
yes . i am now cancer free , and feeling great .	thank god i do not have any health issues . not common in retired people !
that is wonderful for your age . i have a great retired life for sure .	thank god i do not have any health issues . not common in retired people !
i spend time with my husband , and we travel . you ?	i like reading and spending time with my 10 grandchildren . how about you ?
at 100 ! that is very impressive !	i like to make wineglass candles .
whatever works . maybe i will take some tips from you .	how do you have grandchildren if you are in th grade ?
hi ! great thanks . just taking a bath . you ?	hello , i am doing good and you ?
it is worth it though , just meditate . how old are you ?	hello . its enjoyable . how is your weekend going ?
me too , i do not drink or smoke . i am 35 .	i am 32 , how old are you ?
my dogs do not speak either , perhaps they are buddhist too ?	do you smoke or drink ?
yes huskies are always catholic . i really like my foamy baths .	my two dogs are my rock . siberian huskies . smoke pot ?
yes , they are hard workers though . my dogs are lazy , both of them .	my two dogs are my rock . siberian huskies . smoke pot ?
are you married ? i am not .	my two dogs are my rock . siberian huskies . smoke pot ?
ok , i hope to be someday . i am already 35 .	no i am single . maybe in time , though .
hi ! me , too ! i made it to the court at homecoming ! i was queen !	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
i would , but i am too busy studying . i am a totally a student , you know !	what is your job ? i am still in school .
i am on the track team in high school . i want to run a big race !	whats wrong with your current high school ?
awesome ! i am going to college to become a physical therapist .	whats wrong with your current high school ?
we should meet sometime ! after college !	whats wrong with your current high school ?
are you still in high school ?	yes , what about your goals ?
i thought you worked at bk ?	i am still in high school .
oh , well . i do drama in my life , too !	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
hello , i am a 20 year old man , i work in it . do you like dogs ?	i like to work outside .
i love tea , do you enjoy sports at all ?	haha . what does your company make do ?
yes are there any books that you would recommend ?	no but i read a lot . are you a reader ?
are you religious at all ? i am very open minded to others beliefs	i read to my kids each night they love it .
are you excited for halloween ? i have been watching so many spooky movies	yes , i believe in that sincerely . how is work for you ?
i like the new it movie , what movies do you enjoy ?	i like christmas movies like white christmas .
i have never seen that movie , do you enjoy food ?	i like thrillers and action movies
yeah , animals are real good .	hi how are you doing ? i am fine .
i love canines . and uh , tacos i just like	my pets are two dogs .
you need to respond faster .	my pets are two dogs .
of four siblings , one is male and three are female	yes ! i have 3 sisters and 4 brothers . do you have any siblings ?
tell me more about that	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
wow what a flavor ! i love to listen to you	you are a dog person ? cool . i like cats . do you like chocolate or vanilla ice cream ?
helps it to stay cold i bet . do you think woody allen is innocent ?	yeah i do not really eat it its to sweet for me
innocent of not making movies that i do not hate , lol	no not according to this .
i am and how are you ?	eh i am ok , school just started . how are you ?
little bit if everywhere being a army brat	eh i am ok , school just started . how are you ?
i am in the army	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
are you a really good boarder ?	you might try turning it into a career .
are you still in school ?	i ; m still in high school so mot much
absolutely i never finished highschool sadly	yes , i am in high school
kind of a family tradition the army thing	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
i am cooking shawarma right now so i cant	yeah of course . that was highschool . lol
good . just hanging out listen to country music . how about you ?	i am good , what part of the country are you from ?
do you play any instruments ?	oh , well i listen to a lot of music . you play in a band ?
i do ! i love playing the guitar . what else do you do ?	i play guitar but i study music industry .
i got my first guitar when i was three . i would have loved a pink one	pink is my favorite artist , and color .
do you have a job ?	i never drink . some say it might loosen me up but i do not think so .
i sing in a country music bank	i play guitar but i study music industry .
i do . but i grew up in the music industry	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
it was exciting with all the travel and music	oh , well i listen to a lot of music . you play in a band ?
i am great , how are you today ?	hello , i am doing well . how about you ?
wow , i am 25 , and i love to read , 20 books this year .	i am 32 , how old are you ?
i eat kosher so maybe i will live to be 100	i use to , have one and read it sometimes .
great ! my second job is being a stunt double , no broken bones ever .	i do not think i could ever keep to a special diet .
lol , i was raised by a single parent , how about you ?	yea , i agree i drink wine every night but just one glass .
yes i like to dance , but i have not tried it in the moonlight .	yes i do . i actually really enjoy it .
sounds like you are a fun person	correct . i enjoy every bit of it .
what else do you like to do for fun ?	haha . not in a bad way .
singing songs from frozen with my mommy . what are you doing ?	fine about to go to the movies . yo ?
do you like mickey mouse ?	i love watching disney movies !
i get to see him every year at disney world !	i think so . he is a very nice dog .
i do not understand retire .	he died last year .
i love being in the third grade . i love the library !	retirement is the best i want to travel
a teacher , or maybe a librarian . do you like being a librarian ?	i will be soon hopefully . what about you ?
have you read little house on the prairie ?	i also take online classes . what is your favorite disney movie ?
my mom is reading it to me , i like laura .	i love disney movies all time favorite an insatiable reader
hi i am good you ? i tend to keep to myself	hello i am good ? do you work
i am currently working on a robot that is a body double of myself .	you just stay on the farm ?
do you have any allergies ? i have one to water .	yes . it can be sometimes . you have any interests ?
electrician have a very dangerous job .	yes i work a t a local power plant .
i absolutely love country music i listen to it while i work as well .	i enjoy listening to country songs on you tube .
i write twitches for a living .	i only listen to it .
what do you like to do in your free time	i have not really tried . . . do you write ?
i like to relax at the beach with a good book .	i love to read . what about you ?
i am todd hicks . it is good to meet you .	hello , what is your name ?
i work on a freelance basis as an author , blogger and affiliate marketer . and you ?	i work in a school
do you grow crops too ?	is that what farmer market is for ?
no , i am single . are you single or are you married ?	nope ! not married and no kids !
have you ever been to italy ?	i am single , how many kids do you have ?
no . i would like to go there someday though .	no . it is so expensive to travel there . have you traveled to any other country
it is nice that you had a good time .	i have been to spain its beautiful
hello yesterday was my 18th birthday .	hello , and yes i would love that .
do you like fish i really like my pet fish .	i thought you said you were 21 ?
i have had a rough couple of months boyfriend break up blues .	i love fish ! i love all animals , especially dogs . do you have a dog ?
he was average he did not like my favorite color orange .	was he horrible at being a boyfriend ?
doing okay now just living life .	my boyfriend will not approve . i am telling him you said that .
why not i am up for whatever .	my boyfriend will not approve . i am telling him you said that .
never my ocd would not let me so keep practicing .	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
lol i am not . . been with the same woman 6 years and she spends alot	yes , i am .
oh well i am sorry to hear that . do you work	oh , you are doing it for free ? yes she should pay you .
i would love to work from home . . doing what i am not sure	i work online as a professional gamer , which has been a great career
i love roleplaying in games on the internet	haha , i like playing online games
i used to love animals , but hated vet school	well maybe not with this , i play games to forget about it
i have a dog , he is super cool . . getting old though	not pets . i would probably eat them up .
he plays dead . . i am worried one day he will not be playing anymore	yes . i guess he is kind of my role model .
a pitbull , such pretty dogs	he is hilarious , but so is my online game character . haha
doing well , just singing along to the frozen movie . how are you ?	i am great just got back from the movies , u ?
that is awesome . i am in third grade so i do not go to concerts yet .	what do you like to do ? i love disney movies and dancing .
that is cool ! do you ever go to disney ? i go every year !	that is funny ! i have drawn almost all disney characters from the movies
mickey is my favorite ! you should definitely go . epcot is educational too !	do you travel ? i go to disney world each year with family .
other than disney , you can find me on the playground with my friends .	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
i enjoy collecting disney movies , and singing along to them .	no it is just for fun . sometimes we compete in disney .
what is your favorite movie ?	i love to watch disney movies , sounds silly , but they are my favorite .
white house ? i know a little spanish .	ll he not a disney movie fan . ? there my all time favorites
hi jennifer ! it is very nice to meet you . i am andie .	hello , i am wei , i do not have any pets .
yes i work . i am in the construction business , i mainly build houses . what about you ?	i work with my dad at stifel , a construction company . you ?
that is wonderful . do you have any pets ?	i also teach high schoolers . are you in high school ?
i have five cats . i am a cat person , they are so special to me !	i do like dogs but i have 6 cats and no dogs .
oh yes . i always knew i would be a crazy old cat lady .	we have 4 cats . they are so odd at times .
no , i have never found love . men always want me to choose between them or the cats .	yes each family member owns a seperate house .
i could not agree more ! i miss my dad , the best man i know .	i do not think a cat would be a good pet for me .
when i was 16 . luckily , he taught me everything i know about construction .	he died last year .
hi 23 and i enjoy food a lot	hi ! i am well and you ? i do not cook .
even though i like to cook i am not great at it .	i am a cook , love food , you ?
i own a yacht but also rent it out	that is right you said that ! i bet you cook very well .
that is awesome ! i also grave and have done it for years	you should cook for me on my boat
i do i play soccer from time to time	yes i love animals . dogs are my favorite !
i can understand that , my mom gets annoyed pretty quick	soccer is what my son does , i just do the driving . lol
well that is good , but can you handle your nagging wife	eww ! ! yeah mom will not approve of that .
my mom does , it can be so annoying	yes , but she is out and i am not . tell me about your relationship .
hello , and i have not been outside of the us	well no , i just travel a lot . do you ?
italy sounds nice , i want to travel the world myself	i love travelling and a foodie
puerto rico , london , i heard they were amazing places	not the slightest idea . is it in europe ?
i mean same here tax time is the best time to travel really	there is good money in it and its a passion of mine so worth it
only birds i work a lot to have any pets	yes , i have two cats and 4 dogs
lol your cat must be black with scary eyes	i like to bake cakes and decorate them and play sports
i work as a chef at the sheraton hotel but the pay sucks	i do not work . i just bake and take care of my kids . . . you ?
ready for dec 16th to have my baby girl	yea i even started a band
well i worked with human services for 10 years , now i am a father who stays home .	hey , school then work . what about you ?
my wife , my queen died . she was murdered . now my favorite moves are horror .	no , not famous . are you famous ?
my goal is raising my son , he is in junior high . he has been traumatized	yes , what about your goals ?
i hope he is like his mother , i make him watch the horror movies with me .	he seems to think so . i do not work outside the home .
my son , sometimes he reminds me of my dead wife and i wish he would go away	i love horror movies do you ?
hey ? want to go get lunch and make out or something ?	that is sad ! i am sure it is not true .
i will bring my son he can watch and we will not tell your mom or dad	i would have to okay it with my mom and dad first .
hi . that is wonderful ! actually , i am pretty hungry for anything right now , burger or salad .	i am doing well ! how about you ?
yum . will be ready to run again after i have my twins in 2 months .	i . . am not sure if you can do that ? do you have any kids ?
all natural . . . second time . . . twins this time .	i have not done it . i have 2 kids so i have no time .
care for self first . i am a bank teller and just bought first home last year .	baby ? are you pregnant perchance ?
haha . . . i have a toddler . . . worry about time and sleep more than carbon footprint	do you want to have your own kids eventually ?
everyone is different . . . live life best we can and do what we can .	why is that ? so much world out there .
recycle and be cleanly . . . everything in moderation	oooh , that would be awful . do you get that ?
sounds like a plan . . . days off are nice . . . back to work tomorrow	baby ? are you pregnant perchance ?
i enjoy walking my dog what about you ?	i love having a dog
i do not have much time for gardening with my ever growing family !	i love gardening . and growing plants in the garden
i do not have that problem , i have a doctor for a husband	i have a large family . what about you ?
sounds fun i play tennis for a living	that is an awesome career ! where did you grow up ?
winning tournaments . keeps me fit as well so i can run up my 3 storey house	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
do you hope to get your own place soon ? it is very expensive	where were you born and raised growing up ?
do you want children one day ? my family is growing all the time	that is true but money is tight with me not really working
i am ok , i think . taking it one day at a time .	i am doing well . where are you from ?
no , my pills make me hallucinate a bit . it is scary .	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
antidepressants and others , better than my drinking used to be .	i am used to it . been taking 4 pills a day since i was a kid .
i was addicted to alcohol and my brain is damaged . i am paranoid too .	never did drugs because i do not know where to buy them . why do you think that ?
it started out ok , on the farm . now i am in new york city .	haha i grew up in a strict atmosphere . as a child
raise cattle and drink . now i am so sad and delusional .	i was an alcoholic . . recovering now so i cannot . where do you work
sleeping , that is when i do not see demons . how about you	i like a lot of crazy things
i see cars in my house when it is real bad . music is fun though .	i like lots of kinds of music .
great . my new husband and i are now homeowners . you a homeowner ?	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
oh okay . i teach in a school and pregnant with triplets . you have children ?	do you work ? how do you manage with 5 kids as a single parent ?
where you from ? i am from canada ? life here is different . you agree ?	i do not have kids so i do not know , sorry .
oh okay . hmmm . you make your own sausage ?	i would not know about that , being from canada .
my stepdaughter loves german sausage . you sing or dance ? i do both .	oh yes and a good veggie burger is wonderful .
wow ! i jumped off a porch once . what your fave dish ?	i raise my 3 kids and sing
great . you ever tried it with tuna or do you even eat fish ?	yes . buns in the oven . you met my 3 children ?
great ! i am larry here . a chef 80 of the time . . . on my pontoon 20	hi ! i am well and you ? i do not cook .
great dog . i am into comic books , but love dogs big dogs !	haha , no , its just a fun hobby of mine .
are you afraid of spiders then ? spiderman is my fav comic book	do you like creatures ? i get so scared of spiders !
i guess blue , the color of crystal clear water on the lake	mine is blue . what about yours ?
wow ! my brothers built stock cars until an accident that killed a friend .	yes , i enjoy cooking for him
i am head chef at a popular restaurant chain	i work as a chef
i have several specialty dishes , and my family comes by once in a while .	well , i do not like to cook , so i just eat at restaurants . what about you ?
no . i am not married yet . almost engaged once . how about you ?	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
hey girl , chelsea here . olympic gold medal holder . sorry about your parents !	hello . how are you doing tonight ?
gymnastics ! bk is good , but my fave is italian .	yea , and i was not feeling it today .
oh girl , its not really worth it . i train so hard for what ? a necklace , basically !	haha , phew ! i am glad to hear that . i like lean foods . athletes diet
they are just trying to take care of you !	yes ! ! i would absolutely love that . do you do anything else for fun ?
do it , girl ! get that independence going !	yea , i ponder that as well , i think i might have to move .
yeah , but this is not my true passion . i really just want to collect yellow items	yes ! that would be perfect for me ! what is your favorite color ?
flowers , rain boots , cheeses , you name it !	maybe yellow highlights over brown base !
hello , i love to walk my dog and go to church events	i love having a dog
so am i ! what do you do for work ?	haha any dogs at all ? i have two
i am a teacher . maybe you are one of my students	i want to teach music , is that a video game ?
i like to wear skinny jeans too , except not for church every sunday .	i like the pants you guys have to wear . do you have any pets ?
you do sound familiar . you always sit in the fri	yes i am a dog lover .
you are . you should come with me next time i walk my dog	i have to get perfect grades in school .
it is very important for us girls to stay in shape	have a dog so i do get exercise walking him .
the city is where i live now , i hate taking so many medications	that is very young , but is a hurt that does not go away no matter how old
okay , how you deal with it ? i see things sometimes . . .	is the brain damage bad ?
i see , this is something new to me , maybe the alcohol is getting into me	its hard not to sometimes
do you like the farm ? i grew up there	get drunk before hand it helps
why would you want to do that at the same time ?	we have maybe 2 winery nearby but boston is mainly beer friendly
nope , tell me more about it .	haha that is very silly of you
what is your powers exactly ?	lol they actually make medicine for that ?
oh no . . . please do not say stuff like that	i roll blunts
i am ok , drinking a lot of coffee , how about you ?	hi , i am doing great today . what about yourself ?
where are you all going to ?	i am well . and , no kids here . you ?
i am getting ready to go mountain biking . it is fun !	i do not do it ton but it is relaxing .
i love ice cream too , but mostly coffee flavor .	well we do go for ice cream at the park on some days .
well , i do not drink alcohol , so coffee and diet soda . what about you ?	i love coffee mugs ! i am an old soul and like that stuff .
ah . so is my dad , he worked construction , he is the same .	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
she is the greatest mom , i saw her yesterday . do you see your mom ?	her favorite color is pink .
oh , i am so sorry . i am lucky to still have mine .	well , she passed away , unfortunately .
great ! you ? what do you do ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
i work as a custodian , to pay bills . i am also a musician	i am a stay at home mom . my husband makes the money .
rock ! i hope to make it big ! i pay the piano and guitar .	music , but i like to practice guitar and piano in particular
awesome ! does she sing too ? i sing !	my dream is to play music for my job one day .
are you supportive of her dream ? my parents are not .	yes ! i love to sing . what genre do you like to sing ?
oh he is adopted ? how nice !	that is unfair though ! you should go after your dream .
law enforcement work is respectable work . you should be proud !	i am sure your parents are proud of you !
just playing the guitar , piano and singing . i like to color too !	i love to write and draw . i like to create stories for fun
hello ! i am a super fun girl and i love everything disney . how about you ?	of course . i cannot decide whether to read or watch a disney movie .
cool ! i love to go to disney world instead of the beach . i attend an elementary school .	each year i go to disney world
cook elementary . what is your favorite character from frozen ?	that is funny ! i have drawn almost all disney characters from the movies
i love anna the best ! she has really cool hair and gets to kiss kristoff lol .	ariel is the best princess character for disney
i like the frozen songs best . how old are you ?	i love music as well !
eight and a half ! ! ! are you married ?	i am in the 4th grade i turn 10 on dec . 20th .
oh how nice ! i hope to have a husband some day too .	nope not married yet lol
maybe i will meet him at disney world ! 3	i am not going to disney , but i will survive ! haha . . .
hi . good . watching sports on tv . love it !	its going great here , how about with you ?
it . been working in the industry for 15 years now . where do you work ?	i really like traveling and playing with my dogs . you ?
oh no . i live in florida . you could come and stay at my house .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
sounds like fun . i am afraid of heights so are my dogs .	you do not live in florida , do you ?
my children , sports , not time for much else .	i love dogs , i do not have kids so my pets are my kids .
probably not . if the dog likes you , you are all good .	i would like more kids one day .
well , as long as the hurricanes stay away , i am happy . how about for you ?	it has been raining here , i am doing well thank you .
the windy city . yeah , it is definitely warmer in florida .	for the colder weather in chicago ?
fantastic just got home from a wonderful restaurant	hi there , i am doing great thanks . where are you from ?
fantastic , it was a new place in japan , i have been here a week ,	welcome to the restaurant ! i am doing well , how are you ?
oh ? i was just in paris , have you been there ? it is beautiful !	i really love travelling , i am in japan right now . i have not been home in years .
in japan ? i might get a home some day , but for now i am traveling the world	me too ! we had to skip a vacation this year because of buying the house .
that is really cool ! , do you cook at home or go out to eat ?	i really love travelling , i am in japan right now . i have not been home in years .
i love to cook , but i tend to burn things . do you enjoy the ocean ?	i love to cook . anything and everything . except tofu that is . you ?
i have a yacht but since i am not home i rent it out	i work and go to school , i travel a lot for work .
hi . everything is going well on this end .	i am good , playing some video games right now
i am from detroit , mi . what do you like to do for fun ?	i am from washington dc , you ?
that is interesting . i would consider myself a gamer .	i like to play the guitar . and video games .
oh really ? what kind ? i love fps . my fav is cod .	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
that is some heavy stuff . i am glad you are safe	we love call of duty games
on the weekend , i get together with friends and do live action roleplaying	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
yeah it is fun but a lot of work .	what kind of roleplaying do you do ?
what are hats ? the wifey left me and stole my children .	how much do you pay a month ?
because i am fat and depressed . working at a nursing home does that to me .	that is funny ! i have two cats and five dogs
i did not qualify for the olympics because god does not exist	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
winter because i become fatter and have an excuse to be on facebook all the time .	it is warm . i cannot wait for winter !
why is that ? i would like to go to a buffet today .	i would rather it stays like this for me .
do you have a fireplace ?	what would you eat ?
oh i love cats . what kind of cats ?	no i have children to take care of are you going to do that ?
do you give them catnip ?	we have 4 cats . they are so odd at times .
hi , i also like rap music . mostly somalian rap .	i like the rap music do you ?
i got a cat named ziggy when i moved to the united states . he likes reggae music .	all his songs are in english i think . ink i got a c in english .
we should have them meet at a cat park so they can have a rap battle .	our other cat was hufflepuff . her character fit , although we did not know when we named her .
that sounds good . i could pick them up next week in my 1976 chevy impala .	i do not think i would either . its risky !
i love pizza too ! that was the first food i ate when i moved from somalia .	yes what will you order i may get a pizza .
yes i am . my aunt helped me escape somalia when i was thirteen years old .	i m from the eastern part of the usa .
thank you . where are you from ?	thank you ! that is so sweet . where are you from ?
what part of the world is bratislava ?	i live in the united states
how do you feel about video games ?	i am doing well , just playing a game online . how about you ?
they are not really comparable .	what games are you playing ?
i use to work with animals but i hated it so i am job searching .	i work for a hospital as a nurse . you ?
i am sorry to hear that . maybe you should try getting back out there	she lost her job a few months ago .
so what ? fat people deserve love too .	yes i should that would be good for me .
your happiness is in your control .	well i am and i feel my life is miserable , my money does not even seem to help .
i play video games . would love to make a living out of it	i understand . what games pay ?
it is my favorite past time	well i like to play video games .
my parents are on my back again . i cant stand it . you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
that makes you , what ? 8 ? 9 ?	yaa . . i used to . . when i was in school
that makes me 10 years older than you . my parents still treat me like i am 9	i am 15 . do you work ? i am in school .
mickey mouse is cool , but i like scooby doo a lot	its actually a cartoon lol
that is great . those guys are such weirdos .	yes scobby doo is a funny cartoon i love to laugh .
i work part time at burger king . i just like hanging with my friends .	i like to spend time with friends
sounds like fun . i did those things at your age . you have a favorite book ?	i also hang out with friends .
pretty advanced for your age . awesome .	it s my favorite book ever .
hello , getting ready to start baking for the bake sale .	i am great , i am baking cookies ! how are you ?
it is . for the band . please come , there are healthy options .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
so am i , lol . i am always getting my hair and nails done .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i do not . i have a wonderful backyard with a lot of privacy .	i do , the catnip is for a tincture that helps me sleep .
that is awful . i would not like that at all .	i wish i lived in a mansion if i did i would bake cakes all the time .
that would be awful . you really should move .	i wish i lived in a mansion if i did i would bake cakes all the time .
i would be saving all i could	for me i choose to live in a tiny little house to save some money .
clothes are a weakness of mine as well .	it is really expensive , not sure it is worth it .
i am fine from alabama , enjoying my tacos and brother .	i am doing well . i live in alabama
oh yea ? i am liking my tacos then .	oh yea ? do you guys have any tacos or chocolate mike there ?
oh darn . how many siblings do you have ?	fine , more tacos for me .
i happen to have three . and a brother . go figure .	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
no no bike . in all labor there is profit , so i guess i could get one .	no but i have a bike , and i do walk my 3 dogs . you have pets ?
in the multitude of counselors there is safety . my lovely dog would run behind me .	ha . that is one way to look at it . do you have any pets ?
what i mean is , i value your opinion . you could have a taco .	do you have any brothers or sisters ? i have dogs because i have no siblings .
i think alabama can help you with your fix , where i live .	sure ! that could be really good for you , and your family .
i am alright , my like has not been the best recently . how are you ?	hi , its going well and you ?
i work in the music industry , help artists create amazing albums . what do you do ?	i am a freelance artist .
that sounds fun ! where do you live ?	i paint a lot in my free time .
california , not my favorite place but that is alright	i live in texas . you ?
its a nice place , just not very many job opportunities out here for me anymore	i live in california it is always hot here .
very true , just hope the fires in the area do not burn my house down	job opportunities are more prevalent here .
pretty awful at the moment , super smoky air	no wild fires here .
not at all , well enough about me , what do you do for fun ?	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
sounds fun , one of my hobbies is mountain biking .	hi , doing well and you ?
i love dogs , coffee is also something i love !	i do not work myself . its more fun that way .
i grew up in a large family , my father worked in construction , how about you ?	like no way ! it enhances your atmosphere .
i do not drink , and i loathe the color pink , hate it .	i have a small family , but they are so important to me .
i do , love reading , one of my favorite things to do .	yes . i love to read and write . it keeps me inspired .
i am not married and no kids , but would like a family one day , you ?	i love to read , what about you ?
must get lonely , i like people around and noise .	i have a large family . what about you ?
sounds spooky but fun ! any mean ones ?	i have never had coffee with alcohol in it . what do you do for work ?
no . i sing country music . no kids yet .	yes , i am
i would like to go on tour with the rascal flats .	lol ! ! do you have kids ? i have five
i thought tom cochran wrote that .	no , like bob dylans song . do you dig folk ?
i used to spend summers at national parks . that is where i learned guitar at age 3	well he was quite the entertainer , i hear .
we did campfire sing a longs . my parents taught me on a ukulele first	cool how long have you owned it ?
i am trying to be vegan . it is not easy though .	they said it was wild .
what about lab grown meat ? would that make it easy to give up real meat ?	also try to give up meat . when i went vegan , i felt better .
it is supposed to be exactly like the real thing . not sure how that is possible though	you may only treat pet because meat will be grown in lab
i used to teach gym retired now , grew up poor	i like working out and cooking
just watched a war documentary while eating a cheese burger	tell me about it ! what do you do for fun ?
yeah i agree , rich in heart	so you believe that money makes people happy ?
true bad for you , good stuff .	i like volunteer work . i love food and farms .
yeah even with the fat on them ?	he loves double cheese burgers and chicken nuggets
in real life , i am a music professor and i do help the homeless	yes they do and the amounts of money that they help you save oh my so awesome
oh oh well hmmm i guess okay ?	only thing about being that is i would not like to get fat .
i enjoy doing amazon work when i am laying around	eh nothing really i think . you ?
i am in chicago . where are you ?	hello there . i am doing pretty well and you ?
yes , but i am allergic to water . this is very unfortunate .	no it is warm here . how is the weather there ?
i do not go outside much . i stay clean this way .	no , everywhere i work it just feels evil . i do not like evil . what about you ?
i only stream to my 100 , 000 subscribers on twitch . i do not play real sports	you should try skateboarding , it could help you lose weight .
since i helped make starcraft , my name was already out there . 6 months .	how long did it take
designed , yes . now i am making a robot to be a body double of myself .	i was on the design team for that game !
indeed , but it is still a prototype	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
usually older generation , like ps1 and super nintendo . do you watch twitch ?	mostly video games . how about you ?
hello , i am feeling fit since i visited the gym today ! how are you ?	i am great , just left the gym .
after rowing and running on the treadmill , i am pretty hungry . do you work out ?	i am good how are you ? get a good workout in today ?
i enjoy a great meal , but usually just eat when there is nothing else to do . haha	yes . i like to eat .
green , and it shows with my bright green crew cut ! what is yours ?	pretty color . what is your passion ?
nice . is summer your favorite season ? my two huskies are not a fan of the heat .	i love red , reminds me of summer time .
waffles are my main reason for hitting the gym ! you are a person a varied interests !	i love dogs , they are my favorite .
that is great ! what are your hobbies other than cooking ?	yea , i like to keep things interesting .
have not doe that since i was a kid , but was always afraid of lightening ! haha	i like to run and dance .
great , just got home from roleplaying as my favorite character . you ?	hi i am good i was just playing video games
awesome . i am seeing insane clown posse tomorrow in my ford pinto !	i am going to listen to some rock today how are you ?
congratulations ! if you are bored , come over and play call of duty and eat donuts !	you could buy used ford cars . maintenance is crucial though .
like what ? i make vegan donuts ! do you play video games ?	it is good to stay healthy !
would you try vegan donuts ? they are all natural !	never played it . not big in playing video games . anything else about you ?
perfect . do you exercise ? i pretend to be different characters .	ll ! ! ! not sure i want to try that one ! ! !
its called live action roleplaying	i like to live action role play a game called world of warcraft
probably . mine do . what other activities do you do ?	we love call of duty games
when ? when not at my practice i go to the park .	what movie are you watching ?
wow , interesting are you any good ?	we should watch game together .
sorry to hear that , you should watch friday	very cool , no not really , staying home with daughter . maybe go to the park
i would love to see you play	i think everyone has some kind of talent
no , i am unable to travel to the moon . i have to work	i would love that and so would my daughter . its just her and i
please do , then i can consider that	i am hoping to see a alien space ship go by
that is a relief ! no more patient complaints	are you able to save a little money each week to pay it off
you will have to teach me , i never played much	it is the only way i can continue to game all day and still make money
well hiking in spring time is my favorite	i prefer to get out in nature and hike .
o ok i work out with my lab named trooper as well	i like the outdoors . what work do you do ?
mechanical engineer for chevy and nissan	i am an engineer and have been in two accidents
wow is it real or acted out	that is an honorable profession . what do you do ?
o ok wow is that what you always wanted to be ?	funny part is my job is in it . soosoo opposite
i am too shy to be in the spotlight but i am glad you like it	i like to keep a good outlook on life .
yea very much i know i am able to provide good quality car	i do but not professionally just for fun .
yea i have always liked it a lot . what is your favorite food ?	yes it is i am good at math
hello . well , i love horses .	hi , its going well and you ?
what do you like to do ?	have you ever ridden a horse ? i am all about them .
i am working on going into law .	i work in a firm as a lawyer .
that sounds really interesting . how is that business ?	i am going to be a lawyer .
that is great . i would figure that you would have a lot of injuries .	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
i bet that does work .	you should try to exercise . it helps give you clarity .
i like to ride horses and be on a farm .	i love to ride horses .
it sure is . i would like to see more of the city though .	it can be stressful at times , hah . what do you do for fun ?
not bad excited to chat i lack friends	hello ! i am good and you ?
that is not good are you doing ok ?	how old are you ? that is sad
i am sorry what color are your eyes mine are blue and i am a redhead	i am ok . that was rude . how old are you ?
that is so cool that we have it common	what do you think of fun colored hair ?
that sounds pretty serious glad youre ok	i have been doing it since i was 13
well i am glad you got it	it was the only major injury i ever had
awesome glad youre doing better i am not excited for school tomorrow	it is ok i am use to it . tell me about you
that is very strange indeed	ohh totally not what i had in mind but wow
eh nothing much just a woman who is 56 years of age trying to have fun .	hi , i am doing great . what about you ?
women can hurt you easily especially the pretty ones , like i was back in the day .	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
i used to spend money too when i was a painter , but now i just do housekeeping .	you sound rich . . . do you think she was after your money ?
yeah , i am going insane , i keep fantasizing about controlling the world .	yes all the time since i retired .
you should , if you got the money .	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
yeah i bet you do , i used to make a lot selling my paintings	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i need a car actually , do you have one for sale ?	i spend lots of cash on buying things for my hobbies .
okay i will drop by and check them out ! thanks !	yes , but its worth it for a chevy .
hi there . i am coming from my snack shop in new york . you ?	hi how are you today ? i am well thanks for asking .
nice . get acquainted with our culture . you like taylor swift ? i love and met her !	hi . . h r u ? ? how was ur weekend ?
nice . she has nice hair style and color . mine is short , brown and curly .	i like your style janet .
cool ! do you own a car ? i am trying to sell my nissan pathfinder . interested ?	i go all the time . how do you keep the lights on ? what do you do ?
seriously ? i thought it was legally required to learn how to swim in germany	ca not wait to try out a self driving car . hope i will be able to afford one !
oh , i see . what state are you in ?	that was wrong to say ! almost american . . .
nice . visit key west sooner than later !	in florida , i live right on the water .
mostly american snacks . the same ones you can find at a 7 11	anything sweet is good by me !
nice ! my boyfriend and i will be moving in together	habeas espanol ? yo , tambien . great , and you ?
we just bought an apartment , i teach elementary school .	that is sick ship me some money then ! lol
nice ! i speak three language fluently english , spanish , and french	when i get my own cooking show one day i will employ and then feed you !
what is your fave color i like the colors red and silver	yeah ! i have always wanted to teach and it is what i am best at .
well that is pretty cool .	my favorite color is black , in which actually is not even a true color !
it is close to philadelphia , pa	i am in city zone , where are you ?
well outskirts of the city	i do want to move to spain , study there and then teach english there afterwards though .
i think that will be great my boyfriend would not mind	i am hoping to get a job teaching elementary school kids here
good . enjoying the park today . how about you ?	hello i am good ? do you work
no , just walking for exercise and then going to see friday at the cinema .	no , i got out last year .
be careful on slippery roads . i am looking to move out west soon	i am have a somewhat relaxing evening . do you watch movies ?
near ca . i am applying for jobs in the south at hospitals .	probably just drive it to work at the hospital !
yes , what do you do ?	yes work at a hospital as a doctor .
interesting . school is very expensive . i have a lot of loans i am paying back	i have a job in the e . r . department at a hospital
i have an electric car .	i love red too , but not as much as blue . what is your job ?
more charging stations are being installed lately	nah , just need to ride it every day to get to work
not sure if you knew this , but i love chocolate !	hello , i am fine and you ?
really ? i can never tell the difference	of course there is one billion chinese . did you like the music ?
i suppose . . . i prefer something with more bass lol	i like chinese , you can get it delivered
purple . the same as my ping pong table . . . do you play ?	i like the color green especially on money .
same here . . . lights are out in my basement . . . need to call my father	my whole life really . i do not play as much as i used to though .
i would but i do not want to summon ghosts	sure . fire away . i have never done that
what about aliens ? i heard they are already here !	my religion does not allow me to ask a ghost their name .
so sad but i think you are right	no , there is not . it is barbaric and has no place in our society .
why hello . tell me something about yourself there partner .	hi ! seen any good movies lately ?
i really enjoy shopping myself .	i eat tacos wherever i find them .
awesome i love a rolls royce ghost myself !	i do not do it that often but enjoy it .
my parents would not approve as it is they do not approve of my career .	i do not think there is any such thing .
nope , when i was 16 i was probably shopping for watches and shoes .	yes i love it so much because it was my dream career .
i am so sorry to hear . that is a rough life .	are your parents wealthy ? are they supportive ?
awe , love . i wish i was there to hug you !	that is true . what is your family life like ?
no , no , please do not so that please !	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
i am good . i am 46 . i am single with kids .	hi doing great , how about you ?
i have no pets . i am a recording engineer . i have a studio .	where are you from ? i live in california .
you should always pick up your toys .	that has to suck . pets are like people .
that is true . so there you go .	i play with my kids whenever i can .
do you live with your mom and dad ?	i play with my kids whenever i can .
what do they do for work ?	yes , i live with my mom and dad . who do you live with ?
oh very cool . teaching is important .	i am a teacher and a mom .
no , i live just with my kids .	yes . i was born in california .
hi , i make thirty dollars an hour walking dogs . you read alot ? i do .	hello , i am doing good and you ?
sorry . i was painting my kayak . you sing or dance . i do both .	do you read alot ? i am more into music .
what is free time ? my mom and dad were street walkers .	i take photos and film . do you teach at a private school ?
great ! my family lived in a shelter before . we learned to survive there .	i volunteer at the local homeless shelter making meals
they were sex workers . i read psychology journals sometimes . do you ?	i manage a nonprofit dog shelter . i guess dogs are my whole life ! haha
yes i know ! i love kayaking to get away from everything . you kayak ?	false . there are two schools of thought .
wow that is great . i wish i could travel with my dog . you have dogs ?	i like to go kayaking .
alright , just finished a game of baseball . what about you ?	i am doing great and you ?
what kind of dance do you like ?	whoop , happy dance lol ! i am good , how are you ?
i like hip hop too ! my favorite is travis scott	music is cool . do you have any siblings ?
did you enjoy the eighties in general or just the music ?	i want to play music for a living . do you like music ?
i love the lite brite ! my older sister used to have one but i swallowed a piece	i did not care for it in the beginning but the popularity drew me
i just waited it out , mom is just a dentist but she said it would be fine	no , i did not that is nice ! is that what you like to do ?
very true , everyone has an embarrassing story from childhood	yeah . i am sure that all those kids are a handful .
my day was good , sort of chilly .	i am good . you ? just graduated
cool . i would love to do that . not many soup kitchens here in canada .	well i like to grow food and have a good local supply .
that is great , my grandfather served in world war ii	what do you study ? i already graduated .
mine either . i had to drop out of high school to help support the family .	did you go to college before having a child . i did . i wasted years .
great . do you cook a lot , with all your free time ?	well its one thing in your college years . but i am retired and its less risky .
i would love to go fishing but i know little about the sport .	yes ! i absolutely love to cook as a hobby . do you go to school ?
i hope to try fishing one day .	i love to travel . i want to go to canada next .
i would love to do that .	maybe fishing , i can meet you halfway
i am 56 years old and amazing . i am female and living it up .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
do you like the world . i am trying to take it over .	are you married or do you have any kids , like i do ?
i paint in my free time because my family will not visit .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
i think the mona lisa is cool art	my wife likes documentaries . what is this one about ?
i clean houses all day . people can be dirty .	mine is cheeseburgers . with extra pickles . yum !
i like raw steak and eggs . bring on the bacon .	so work is hazardous to your health and against your beliefs . interesting .
when i take over the world i will grant bacon to everyone	why not i think it is good bring home the bacon .
well before i turn 57 i will make it happen	why not i think it is good bring home the bacon .
i love eating cheeseburgers and watching war documentaries	hello . how are you doing today ? i am good .
no ! i am actually a retired gym teacher but not married	yes , i am .
mainly in the shower lol ! i like to volunteer at soup kitchens ! you ?	no , i am actually a music teach . .
my family was poor but now that i am older i can eat out as well !	i enjoy cooking . i volunteer at a soup kitchen
oh that is really sad ! i am sorry	yes she is eating right now .
that is okay ! that is why i volunteer now !	i bet , do you have much help ? my mom is a retired teacher so she is great .
that is great ! i bet it will be a beautiful wedding	we have so much in common ! we should get married
hi ! no , maybe a new tractor for the farm .	i am doing great getting to go to work .
lol . the horses are my favorite	sad to hear that . i thought you said you worked too much though ?
ditch one thing and get two others . haha	well , you would better keep working at that , then !
i do not . i just help on the family farm . you ?	no , my kids are a handful enough ! ! haha . how about you ?
perfect . what kind of music do you like ?	i have two that help me on the farm , i do not have children yet .
rock mostly . not much of a country fan .	i love music mostly pop rock
they do know how to rock !	yes , i am sure many would agree with that . the new country is more like pop .
sold any cool cars lately ?	you think so huh ? big music fan
i am excellent , how old are you ?	hi there , good thanks you ?
oh ! i just turned 23 , i am visiting china for my birthday !	i am 32 , how old are you ?
thank you ! do you travel ? i have been traveling since i was little . i love it .	well as long as it makes you happy then keep doing it .
that is awesome ! how is their food ? i love trying new food .	i love to travel everywhere ! where have you been ?
you should reach for that goal ! i love food ! i like cooking but i cant lol .	what is your favorite food ? just new recipes i find .
yum ! ! what do you do for work ?	i do love traveling ! where are you from ?
same here . i rent out my yacht on the weekends to help pay bills .	i work and go to school , i travel a lot for work .
they really are . well its been a pleasure chatting with you , have a good night .	it is good pay but not fun to go to every day .
that is interesting . i am rather boring i have worked in it for 15 years	where do you and your family live ?
it is a good subject to study . you have to update your skills throughout your career though .	yes , i love it . do you ?
yes , i am an all american male , who enjoys sports . do you miss india ?	i live in maryland but was born in india
perhaps i will be able to visit one day , once my child is grown .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
that is great ! i take my dogs to the beach every morning .	i think you might be able to teach yourself in a shallow pool .
he is 4 , he will go to school next year . he also loves the ocean .	he is in his teens . how old are you ?
why is that ? kids can find interesting things no matter where they are .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
that is sad , i wish i could adopt children who need a good home .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
i am sure they are . kids who have difficult lives , learn very quickly .	there s nothing wrong with you . it s them that have the issue .
nothing much . i am just thinking about my ex boyfriend .	just playing with my dogs and cats ! ! ! you ?
cool . sounds like a fun job . do you like it ?	i got 2 different dogs , even dogs ?
i do not have a job . i am a college student .	i have a chicken and a rooster in my backyard . you go hiking ?
just doing first year college . trying to figure it out .	i study , what about you ?
i like going on long hikes and the beach .	i study , what about you ?
olympic hiking ? is that a sport ? if so , sign me up .	because you are out on the water and have an opportunity to see the sunset !
what is your favorite sport ?	are there any sports that you enjoy watching ?
do you swim in the ocean ?	i like to eat fish and go swimming . good fit right ?
hello , how are you this evening ? are you on twitter ?	hello , sure . why not ? where are you located ?
i love twitter and snap chat and instagram and facebook and reddit .	i am great , how are you ? and yes all the time ! perks
i have a large family and many friends . real life ones .	i think there are . blogger ? lol
i do not like comics or sci fi . they always portray women as weak .	i also draw the comic , do you know how ?
we will have to agree to disagree . i am all about feminism .	well , she is not supporting you is she ?
do you only use organics ? most chefs are male .	i seem to live online pretending to be other people .
i do too . does your restaurant have solar panels ?	i love vegetables ! i know that not everyone shares that point of view .
you should . every little bit helps mother earth .	yes , i get alot of customers online .
oh that is cool . i hung out with taylor swift	mmm . i love food . what do you cook ?
i sell a lot of hummus at a convenience store	lol ! that made me laugh so hard .
yeah . i do not like it .	ooohhh nice ! ! wanna add me to it . lol .
i hate cooking . my girlfriend does it for me	you have to share the recipe . do you like cars ?
why do you not cook here ?	that is right you said that ! i bet you cook very well .
google can tell you anything , best thing to use	i think that is where i went wrong , i stuck with american cuisine .
its a special little man .	google makes me think nothing is wierd that is where i work .
great just left work , how are you ?	hi i am good , and you ? i am in colorado , where are you ?
cool . . . . not much of a singer	i am going to listen to some rock today how are you ?
nice , i am from colorado	it is a small career . i also promote metal shows in the midwest .
they are a good team , do you have any hobbies ?	i like the outdoors . what work do you do ?
i go hiking with my dog trooper	i like trekking and mountain climbing
i got him when i was a young boy and trooper was all i could think of	how does your dog go rock climbing ?
awesome . how old is he ?	i guess i would have to say that i became an engineer and i enjoy that
lol that is unique and interesting	he is in his teens . how old are you ?
i am well . where are you living ?	i am good . where are you from ?
well , i am in the united states too , but i came from somalia .	i am from ohio , you ?
i am trying to get a job in the new york ballet , but i teach dance .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
well my story may inspire your students in that case .	i also teach high schoolers . are you in high school ?
you must be very excited ! tell me about it .	maybe you will fall in love like i did this summer !
you must feel very excited to start a new chapter of your life .	its not that hard . i will help you !
really , dance is my only thing . i also spend time with my aunt .	i love to cook and travel
no not yet , do you ?	no kids , but i have 10 nieces and nephews that i adore ! where do you live ?
i am doing good , how are you ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
awesome , what do you do ?	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
on the weekend i dance , i also work in a bookstore and studied chemistry .	i am a teacher , science , it was my favorite subject
lucky you , i wish i was retired already lol	what ever keeps you busy !
i will try , which color do you hate the most ?	i will experience that soon enough lol . any pets ?
the color i hate the most is orange and i use some technology .	yes i love technology !
a smartphone is good but being on it 24 7 is terrible for your eyesight .	you do not have to use it .
good evening . how are you tonight ? i am well .	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i am trying to write invoices for my dog walking business .	good how are you doing ? are you in school
i love the violin . i do not play anything . i kayak for fun however .	wee i majored in psychology and it is a waste of time .
oh wow ! i would love to visit a foreign country . was it fun ?	i travel . to foreign countries mostly .
i imagine it would . i speak a little spanish , not much . i like reading though .	ahhh . i said ni hao at the beginning i learned from my father is in china
i am a grad student and i eat my share of chocolate during late night studying .	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
is not tha the truth ? it leaves little time for much else .	hot chocolate sounds nice . are you in school ?
hi amanda , i want to take over the world .	hello i am amanda . i am good , how are you doing ?
i hate shopping . or spending money	yes ! you are beautiful and wonderful and the best person for your kids ! believe it !
i have two pairs of jeans and one pair of shoes .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
i do not work . all my children are grown and do not visit	i am currently self employed .
that is how parents are . they care about you	yes , totally agree with you . i think the world gets bored as well .
yeah maybe someday . i hope they will	you should probably not . it is not good for the world .
i do not have any grandkids	perhaps i could get my kids to bring me . they do visit me often .
nothing really . i just read books about the world	i love to spend time by the water fishing with my grandkids . you ?
good , my son just left for junior high school	i am doing well , just watching a movie . how about you ?
he is not good , but i help him a lot	ah , you have a child . only one ?
no i am a stay at home dad , and you ?	no , i work too much for kids .
i was in human services 10 years before i quit to pursue my passion	i have a career as a doctor assistant
horror movies , i like to be scared , and do you have any interest ?	well most of the time i stick to my passions .
what do you like about friday ?	i love to watch movies on friday nights .
there is a big park near the school , you should come .	i like to go on walks in the park
i like near the coast and you ?	i am from washington dc , you ?
i am doing good , how about you	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
that sounds great ! i do not cook much	good just finish cooking breakfast and you .
nice . i just work for the us postal service	you ever try to paint yourself ?
no you did not , wow !	it is unclear what you are referring to . do you drive ?
my father drove for nascar	must be my italian heritage . we are welcoming people . just do not cross us . . . . .
its a lot of fun you should come sometime	nascar is the perfect sunday for me lol
yeah it is . are you a dog person ? i have a german shepherd	driving a race car is awesome . you ?
mhm yummy . my dogs name is barnaby	haha ! what kind of dog do you have ? i love dogs .
hi . how was your day ?	hi , its going well . and you ?
guess how old i am ? ? i am 100 !	oh . what do you drive ?
surprisingly , i am strong for 100	what do you study ? i already graduated .
honestly , i may live forever	jealous but then not , its so expensive . you must be rich !
i grew up in new york	i actually grew up in london
what school do you want to go to	i grew up in chicago . where do you live now ?
i do indeed know it	i went to yale . how about you ?
i am in ohio . we are almost neighbors .	louisiana , i can speak both english and french so i think it will be a good fit
congratulations ! i do not have any kids . the musician lifestyle is too hard for that .	i have 15 students . i am studying spanish . i know some spanish .
i am sorry to hear that . is there something you would rather be doing ?	i like to learn new languages . right now i speak english and french , looking to expand that .
wow . that sounds pretty interesting . what subjects would you focus on ?	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
wow . he must be a pretty interesting guy if you are going to do a documentary .	well , i speak three languages french english and spanish , so anything really
so what else do you like to do besides make documentaries ?	my son is smart i am teaching him spanish one of the four languages i speak .
personally , i like to study languages .	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
i am doing good . its a chilly night . how are you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i am a waitress at the local perkins .	hi i am doing well today . do you have any hobbies ?
we have 5 kids . it is a such a handful !	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
how many kids would you want ?	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
our house has 3 garages for my motorcycle .	all of our income goes to raising our kids right now . its so expensive .
a harley davidson . what kind of car do you have ?	i own a lot of different cars .
those are good cars ! we also have a 1970 chevy impala .	i just have a ford focus .
i would have liked to race the cars .	oh , i have a mustang too ! it is black .
hello , i am wonderful , how are you ? i am a canadian .	hi ! doing well . how about you ?
i am on the other side of lake erie .	did you ever serve in the army ?
i am currently enlisted in the canadian army .	i am in the navy .
i have a dog , her name is shelby .	what ? no . no cats .
hawaiian , but i do not eat it very often .	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
have you ever been to hawaii ?	it is my absolute favorite food .
i have never heard of them .	lol ! i am in cali right now . hope to move to canada soon .
90s metal was popular in mine .	never heard of them . are they good ?
hello emily , my name is kim . what have you been up to today ?	hi there , if you mean am i fine , then yes thank you
waiting tables is hard work . unwinding sounds better	i did not do much today . it was a relaxing day . what about you ?
looks good to me , i hate hat hair , sweating , ugh	i tried but always forgot to put it on the curb on the right day . you ?
yeah , snow , i move south in the winter since i retired	no , i admit i do not .
spent alot of time on airplanes , now i grill , gamble and have fun	nothing retired .
i would say it does , ride much or race ?	yes ! that would be great !
where is down here ? i mow the lawn when weather is great	it is very hot there in the summer !
florida here , everybody is old , retired and does casinos here so i do not stick out .	biggest things i like are walking in nature and cheap restaurants .
i am doing great ! how about you ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
well , that sounds like fun ! do you skate too ?	i am doing great and that is cool . you ?
ouch ! i am sorry to hear that . you need to sleep though .	i do not work so i need something to keep me out of trouble !
being a former member of the military , pain is never far from home .	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
i am going to the bunny sanctuary where i volunteer .	could not agree more . so would you consider joining the military ?
it is adorable ! thousands of bunnies hopping around freely .	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
well thank you . same to you .	right now . take care ! ! been nice chatting .
i have work tomorrow . i work at a ship yard , and morning comes early .	practice all you can and it will pay off one day !
i am great ! just got back from a run !	hello , i am doing good and you ?
pretty much ! i also swim and ride my bike and play soccer .	yes ! i have been running nightly to try to get in shape
what kinds of active things ?	married ? do you have a family ?
wow that is really cool ! any famous movies you have been in ?	i am not a professional , but it is a big hobby of mine .
ah , i see . are you married ?	no , not famous . are you famous ?
me too , but we do not have any kids . just a dog !	nope ! not married and no kids !
his name is banjo and he is a mini aussie shepherd .	the name of your dog is little ?
he is five years old but people think he is a puppy since he is a mini !	a long , long time ago .
i am from alabama . i work construction , i learned from my dad . you ?	hello where are you from ? i am fine
what do you do in the army ?	do you have any cats ?
following in the family footsteps , very cool . do you have any pets ?	what do you do for a living ? i am in the army .
yes , i have 5 cats . i rescued them and they are very special to me .	i do like dogs but i have 6 cats and no dogs .
i like to cook . how about you ? any interesting facts ?	yea , i like to keep things interesting .
i have not , i should take it up though . it is nice to try new things .	i do , i eat locally made food from it .
do you watch the food network or follow cooks on facebook ?	i would not know about that , being from canada .
yes , i believe it is , as long as you can follow directions .	yes , it requires an upper level of comprehension , i suppose .
h hey buddy , spare some change ? oh i got the shakes lad .	hi . how are you today ?
burp oh is that so ? do you preform on sidewalks by chance ?	that is an honorable profession . what do you do ?
i left me farm life behind , live in the city now .	yes , i am pretty lucky to get to work with her .
d does shaking count as dancing ? oh man . . i need a drink .	no , but i tap dance .
teaching dancing to inanimate objects was my profession . i live in a box .	i kind of want to get drunk .
p pig skins are monitored by the illuminati . they want to take away our booze .	well smoked pig , is the best . ever been to a pig roast ?
is vomit stains insurance ? it seems to keep everyone away .	no , i want it all for myself . kidding , sure .
i am 45 ! my mom is dead . darn you illuminati !	does anyone abuse you , my mother broke my are yesterday because i coughed loud
i love taylor swift , she is my favorite	i like music ! what do you like to sing ?
do you like eating out ? i do	i love dogs . they are so much fun .
sounds fun ! i just turned 24 .	i have make hot dogs if that counts
i am a kindergarten teacher . keeps me busy	neh . too much work , i am a student and a singer .
i think music is the key to life .	i often use music while teaching my kindergarten class .
i would rather eat out with friends .	i love music as well !
i do not mind it , as long as i know it is there and the bills are paid	but music is fun but not enough money in it unless you make it big .
it can be . can also be a boring one .	i have kids , so it pays the bills . ll
i am doing great polishing my red and blue striped race motorbike .	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i have been racing for over 10 years , how are you today ?	haha i say yes . if you really race , you will win .
wow , i am sorry to hear .	i am sorry that is sad . are you injured ?
sorry to hear dude i am glad you are still alive .	my heart goes out to you , i feel your pain . remember the good things .
hey , well when you recover from surgery maybe you can ride a motorbike .	i can definitely relate . what is your eye color ?
ep , just make sure to wear a helmet and safety eyewear , that is what i do .	have you ever wondered if you could change your eye color ?
yes because if not , your eyes will start tearing up and your mouth will drool .	have you ever wondered if you could change your eye color ?
it sure is , the sunrise was a lovely orange this morning .	hi , its going well and you ?
i walked to the pet store and came back with a fish .	because you are out on the water and have an opportunity to see the sunset !
many people have outdoor aquariums , my ex boyfriends parents did .	i do not think you would like fish .
my birthday cake yesterday had a tiny aquarium piped on it .	there is a lot of fish in the sea . you will meet someone new .
thank you so much , how old is he ? i am finally 18 .	yeah his birthday was a couple days ago
aww . how sweet . my parents forgot my birthday , as usual .	he is very talented .
mine are self absorbed , unless it is about them they do not care .	awww . . . i am sorry to hear that .
good . just relaxing after a long day of gardening . you ?	afternoon ! i am great thanks , yourself ?
i do too . i do a lot of outdoor walking .	i am into exercise . what sports do you like ?
understandable . i have a dog . do you have any pets ?	i should go to church , i know i used too .
nice . i am a school teacher . what do you do ?	i do not have any pets , but i love dogs ! i teach at an elementary school .
very cool . a lot of people at my church wear it that way . i go every week .	i work at a church .
i love it . i have been doing it for years now .	i really like being a teacher , its very rewarding .
thank you . it is appreciated .	i think teaching is a great profession .
it is not to lae to do so .	you should try to exercise . it helps give you clarity .
the same . me and the cats are watching the birds .	hello , i am fine and you ?
no coffee here . doctor says no . trials of being old i guess	all work and no play ! any animals or children ?
oh young people . the holidays are coming . that makes me sad .	it sure can lift your spirits .
my kids do not come . just me and the cats again ? do you like cats ?	ahh well you should come volunteer with me .
oh , that would be wonderful . so long as they are nice to the animals .	i used to have two cats as a kid ! now i volunteer with animals .
i will have to send for some from the store .	thank you , i do not like cats . or dogs . birds . any animal for that matter .
i am on a special diet from the doctor . better eat what she says	i would love to eat some ! anything else interesting about your life ?
not any sicker than usual , just old i guess	i hope she says yes .
hello lets get to know each other	c amon down . i will introduce you to my sister and her dog ciales . ll .
not really i am more of a foot ball guy	hello , and yes i would love that .
that is boring as heck dude	do you have any siblings ? any pets ?
yes very . i grew up in alabama	aw , do not you have brothers and sisters ?
you do seem pretty boring	do you have any siblings ? i have two
that does not make any sense	ll not really just boring
are you just typing to type ?	no , that is just crazy .
oh wow you said something that had context	i thought we were not talking about dogs ? i do not talk to my brother much .
hi , i work at a pawn shop as the watch dealer cashier . you work ?	hi ! doing well . how about you ?
great ! i love shoes and want a rolls royce one day . you drive ?	oh . i sell cars for a living .
wow ! my parents will not let me work as a stripper . i want a rolls .	haha . what kind of car do you drive ?
oh okay . is your church for ex strippers ? you sing in the choir ?	i go all the time . how do you keep the lights on ? what do you do ?
get out ! i danced for a queen too . she paid for the dance though .	yes ! and dancing as well .
oh ! not much money in fanning feathers is it ? why did you change ?	i would think extremely lucky ! i want to sing and dance too !
i see . i strip because my parents would not buy me a rolls royce car .	it was a gift . have not had a chance to paint it yet .
sure , what is your favorite color ?	are you in school i am in the 10th grade
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	i love pink and baby blue
i prefer colder weather like winter	i love to garden during this time of year .
that is funny , i do not get along with my wife	yeah i have a a dog that is getting a little old .
i think she hates my blue eyes	they have a love hate relationship .
i do not like school	hers are blue , is that okay ?
columbus day or some nonsense	i study , what about you ?
i mean i have long beautiful hair so does it matter what i learn ?	i just focus on school . i get great grades . what about you ?
i am good . hope you are having a great evening	hello i am fine so are you single or married ?
i am watching my girlfriends dog . a chihuahua . she is a nervous kond of animal	good ! i was wondering if you are married ?
i work in the west virginia coal industry . what about yourself ?	i do finance for a local business
i enjoyed the sport when i was younger . good to communicate with you .	i am just a stay at home wife . my husband makes the money .
no . i have been single all my life but recently got together with a great person	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
are you all happy together and looking forward to the holidays ?	i have been a house wife since we started trying to have kids .
thank you ! ! we are a mixed race couple and the best of friends .	i can relate ! happy wife , happy life .
just working . keep these people quite in the library .	i am just sitting with my grandkids
yes i am . but really hoping to retire soon .	i currently work for a museum .
no , its hard to keep up now that i am in my 60s .	no i do not have pets either . kind of lonely sounding , huh ?
problem is i do a lot of traveling like to spain .	i have a cat , but that is all . what about you ?
yes , but i love traveling , before i am really too old .	yes . and we travel quite a bit . now that i am out of work .
that is awesome . i hear it is very relaxing .	i do not think a cat would be a good pet for me .
oh wow yes i can only imagine . crazy cat women comes to mind .	oh yeah . you would be able to retire young .
oh year . you are just too funny !	cats are awesome too , i do not have one yet .
i am doing good . dreading the holidays .	i am great . do you like animals ?
the holidays make me fussy . i do like watching birds with my pet cats .	i do not do anything . what about you ?
i spend a lot of time advocating for animal rights . good hobby for a geezer .	i love animals , i just want to help them .
i love star wars ! i dyed my hair like a rainbow for the last movie .	yes i do . i actually really enjoy it .
no kidding ! when i was in college , helmets were still leather .	ha ha ! ! well it helps when you enjoy football .
you would not believe me if i told you . i am older than your grandparents .	yes , i did . and college . you ?
makes my rainbow hair all the more weird , but thanks !	i used to have two cats as a kid ! now i volunteer with animals .
that is very nice of you to say . where do you live ?	yes ! i volunteer at various animal shelters , but my hair gets in the way .
hello , my sons and i are having a father son bonding night .	hi . what is with kids these days ? i am fun but they do not agree .
one of my sons is 13 and the other is 15 . do you have pets ?	they are all in their 20s . no pets . do you have any hobbies ?
i have 2 dogs . do you like sports ?	no , i do not have any pets either .
we love to watch soccer , its too hot to play here . we live in florida .	i do , but it is not my main thing . i do love soccer , though .
i bet , working in it for the last 15 years i am out of shape .	wow you should try mexico . it is very beautiful .
you are right . i should start playing soccer with them .	its good to keep in shape , especially since it sounds like your job requires it .
yeah good idea . you are smart i bet you are doing good in school .	i would love that , maybe some soccer too ?
practice makes perfect , keep working at it and you will be good soon .	yeah not very smart though .
hi ! no i have not . i eat a lot of chocolate though	i like fried chicken and chocolate cake , hobbies ?
how old are you ? i am 5 . some do not understand me , but i like to talk	you need a dog in your life . they are awesome for these kind of moments .
oh i see . well when i grow up , i want to be a dog	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you grow up ?
what does your dog do ? i like to play with blocks and sing the alphabet .	he is a standard poodle .
that sounds like fun . my mom shops for me all the time !	i do love to shop . what do you like to shop for ?
oh wow . that is alot of shoes !	that is cute ! what do you want to be when you grow up ?
that is crazy . i love chocolate so much !	ha . that is one way to look at it . do you have any pets ?
hi i am from alabama what about yo	hello , i have 3 brothers and i am the oldest
yeah they are scary have you seen the new it movie	woah ! i live in texas . do you have any sisters or brothers ?
what kind of foods do you like	yes , it , have you seen it ?
i love tacos they are my favorite thing to make	i like cooking exotic foods .
yeah it can be good sometimes are there any good taco spots near you	i eat tacos wherever i find them .
that is good what tacos are your favorite	i am in alabama , we dd not have anything like that .
yeah those are so amazing	tacos are great and easy
that is funny do you have any siblings	do you have an siblings ? i have 3 .
i am good , i enjoy riding horse ! how about you ?	hello i am good ? do you work
lol , i rotate the crops in my farm fields	haha i love cats ! i have 4 of them and 2 small dogs .
why is winter your favorite ?	you just stay on the farm ?
that is pretty cool ! i just farm and my father does too !	ca not really do much in this weather !
no , i just like to listen to music , especially rock !	i wear many hats , there should be multiple streams of revenue
my favorite is acdc ! what about you ?	i like all music genres . do you have a fave ?
oh true , i like those too but not as much	i like r b as well . what are you favorite foods ?
i like bach when i am relaxing but when i am working i prefer rock music .	hi i am doing ok listening to bach how are you
what do you like to do ?	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
a tractor would help with my job tending fields . what is your job ?	mostly i like to take care of my horse . her name is beauty .
i have horses on my farm . what do you have on yours ?	i ride horses and and breed cattle
do you do anything for fun ? i enjoy equestrian .	herd cattle on my little farm . how about you ?
sounds like you have a very good but quiet lifestyle !	i listen to lots of rock music in my spare time . what do you do ?
i do work hard especially taking care of my three arabian horses !	it is actually very hard work , but totally worth it .
they are ! and i love riding them !	they are a lot of work , but so worth it !
am happy for you and also have the same plans next year	cool how long have you owned it ?
wow my girl friend is still sticky about having a baby	when are you planning to start
not as yet i first had a tight work schedule not allowing to have one	no kids as of yet .
i love women who eat to their fill	aw , just wait for grand babies
my hobbies are watching movies and listening to music	i do not have any hobbies . just devoted to my work but does not pay off
do you find your kids fun ?	i enjoy listening to music !
are you a nice parent to them ?	yeah they all wanted to have kids . i have to get out when i could .
that is the dream of every loving parent	they are a lot of work , but so worth it !
how are u doing tonight and are u married	hello , and yes i would love that .
i have been married for 5 years and have 2 kids	yes i bet do you plan on having more kids or are you done ?
i am not old but not young i just bought a house last week	yes i have four young kids and you ?
well do u eat healthy or do u just eat cereal	so you probably have a nice house for yourself
yes i have candy but i do not like to share it	really none , i just like candy , but i eat so much of it .
so whats your favorite color mine is red	i do like chocolate , and tiramisu .
no coloring on the walls is not a good idea	i do love purple . . . the only good thing about my kids school
time out is very bad do u like music	hmm but cant you do both ?
no i do not do you ?	i am fine , how about you ?
that is nice what kind of music do you like	do you like rap music ?
i am a music producer for rap artists	i do not do music , i listen to it .
work takes up a lot of my time	i like to play field hockey and also soccer , you ?
i just got a new honda that i am pretty excited about	i do not drive , i ride the bus , do you have any pets ?
yeah its nice but can be expensive	you have great potential ! i do not let mine play soccer yet
yeah and luckily i like my job	yes , but it does not pay very well .
that would be cool i bet its really hard though	i play professional soccer . my job is not enjoyable , trust me .
it is raining here , i am just drinking coffee , what are your plans after ?	good morning it is well an you ?
do you go gambling often ? i have never been	work first , then fun will come your way ! 30 , you about 18 ?
i have to go to the pharmacy today , i am not looking forward to the traffic	i spend a lot of time at the casino .
i used to live in canada , i know snow . i live in a city now	what is it you do on the road ?
that is awesome , i have no view , just the buildings surrounding me	i live in canada at this time .
you are so lucky , i take vacations in south carolina for that very reason	i love beaches , but i still like cold winters .
florida is one of the last places i would ever live , california as well	yeah you are luck people in fl is not so lucky
i teach elementary school , and so did my parents . now you ?	i do not think i could be a teacher or sing
that is exciting . what did you go to school for ?	i am still in school .
well , i love board games , and i would like to think i am the best . do you ?	i am going to be a teacher .
that must be interesting . do you have a favorite band ?	i like to read once in a while . i like music more .
nice ! to me , the best band ever is up . i even went to their concert once .	i often use music while teaching my kindergarten class .
i just told you , silly goose . the band up . what about you ?	yes , love it . great band .
i am not entirely sure what they would be considered as .	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
i teach elementary school . what do you do ?	i teach at a middle school , 7th grade science .
i am doing well . do you have any hobbies ?	hello i am good ? do you work
wow that does sound busy , i do not have kids , but 3 horses	that is a wonderful job . how many kids ?
my family has a farm , i work in the fields most days	mainly ride horses . you ?
that is to bad , i do not think i could work without music	i work in the finance department of a local bank . how about you ?
i like rock , how about you	do you listen to music ?
does it help them sleep ? i could try it with my horses	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
i have a special mix of grains and grasses i use	i have horses , pigs and hens on my farm .
when have some sheep , and a few cows . we are getting some pigs in the spring	i tend to the animals on the farm , particularly the chicken . they are my favorite .
hi there , i am bob .	it is a good afternoon . i am fine , how bout yourself ?
i retired a long time ago	hi , i am from dallas , tc . where are you from ?
outdoor grilling is my favorite thing .	i wear many hats , there should be multiple streams of revenue
what is your favorite color ?	i can help you fix that !
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	green is my absolute favorite color .
always i love skateboarding too	i love to win , sunny days , and coffee . you ?
healthy is good , better than my gambling	do you still play ? i love to go to games .
i like to mow lawns	i see , you like gambling ?
hello ! i am good . i just came inside from tending to my fields .	i am great , just finished working on the farm
ironically , i do not like the food i plant . i prefer pizza .	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
my father hates that i do not like the food we plant , as he is a farmer .	it is one of my favorite things to do . that and anything with music .
do you like music ? i love rock music and listen to it while i work !	does your ranch have horses or cattle ?
it is funny that my arabian horses , that i have three of by the way , love it .	i listen to hip hop mostly .
three years . they are my favorite ones to ride . more fun than driving a car !	a long , long time ago .
i bought a comfortable saddle online not too long ago , but you are right .	i get it . my farm got foreclosed last month .
i wish i could teach more people to learn to ride	haha well it definitely seems worth it ! what do you do for fun ?
yes . i need a friend now while i am going to divorce soon .	your funny i hope to find a husband that is funny like you
i was 20 when we married and 40 now so that long .	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
hope it is better . she takes all the money from my bad job and spends it .	yeah i never got married so same situation . do you work ?
no we did not . i sell cars just for her to blow the money .	i am a car salesman ! what do you do for fun ?
i like television and she loves shopping .	i like videogames and i am a big music fan .
i guess we did do that together . maybe i will keep her .	have yet to find the man . just got divorced actually .
she does have more good than bad .	you should probably divorce her and move on . you sound like a great person .
yes but her personality is more beautiful .	she is . we make it work . have been for 20 years .
i would like to chat with you .	hey ! yes , tell me something about you .
oh , wow . why has it been so long ?	are not we supposed to use a certain character ?
i have not been there before . what did you used to do for work ?	no , i do not . i never had much of an opportunity to do so .
i understand . i often feel isolated , as well .	that is a good occupation . i would do that if i needed to work .
i have . it comes in handy when life gets . . . out of control .	no , it never crossed my mind . that could give me more free time .
i was born with a heart condition and received a transplant . it changed me .	no , it never crossed my mind . that could give me more free time .
fine , except . . . i have developed these strange abilities . i can . . . move things with my mind .	i think it has actually made my condition better .
it can be scary . why did you choose to find yourself in alaska ?	ok , yeah that is like a visual meditation . nice .
i hear it is lovely there . i have to go now . thank you for chatting !	you can always change that ! i have been everywhere in the u . s . except for alaska .
i am okay i guess , pretty lonely though .	hi . . i am good . . how about you
well , living in a cloud i guess has that effect .	not really . just a quiet , shy person . and you ?
that sounds nice , i bet you are never lonely .	do you have children ? i have 2 .
i am too young to buy a house , at least most people say so about little girls .	i am paid a lot of money and a big house . its a lot , and lonely .
i am suppose to be , but i use my super powers to stop time and not go .	i am still in school .
it is lonely , could i come play with your kids ?	yes . i feel like it is fulfilling though .
they could come see my cloud home .	i would send my kids to your school .
i bet they would , it is so bouncy and fun there .	i would send my kids to your school .
did you have to do any hard chores ?	teaches kids how to do stuff around the house . cook , clean , pay bills , sew
i am a school teacher and i love children and my job .	i work from home . what type of work did you do before you retired ?
not really as a women i try to watch my diet at all times .	i do cook a mean green bean and cheese omelette . do you walk to work ?
true but i like to try to keep my figure down .	well , my dogs are more than i can handle to be honest .
the most exercise i do is walking my dogs	you should try to exercise . it helps give you clarity .
i have a hound and a pitbull . and i love them very much .	dogs , dogs , and more dogs . i love them
wow you feed your dogs burgers that cant be good for them !	he loves double cheese burgers and chicken nuggets
with to dogs i cant have any cats in the house .	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
hi staci , my name is blob . i like to eat raw and recently bought a house .	i love music . what is your favorite band ?
like raw veggies , grains , etc . i attend the rolling stones every year if possible .	you seem quite focused on music .
ya is not that souther rock ? my major is economics .	no . never heard of it .
what was your favorite park ?	ha ha . i to concerts a lot too . what music do you like ?
which state is that in ? i attend meetings and pretend like i know a lot .	home economics teacher . not what i thought i would be doing . it works .
that is awesome . i am sure you are very talented after starting that young .	you should listen to more music . it is good for your soul .
it is ok . i have thought about going back to school for another degree .	yes i do . i actually really enjoy it .
some science , like bio medicine . did you study music in school ?	i plan to start school again next fall .
hi . how are you ? i do since i work for myself walking dogs	oh , no . why is that ?
oh you have a dog too . i have three .	aw that is nice . i never had a dog . i bet its awesome .
wow that is scary . what do you like to do for fun ?	they have a love hate relationship .
that is cool . my dad was a door to door salesman .	well i watch nascar . what do you do ?
i am not into makeup much	you are a shoe salesman ? neat ! my dad used to do that with cars . haha .
i understand . at least you have government benefits	ha . that is one way to look at it . do you have any pets ?
i can only imagine . are you in a relationship at the moment ?	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
i am doing amazing , how are you ?	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
nice , do you have any pets ?	hi doing great , how about you ?
puppies are cool , i want one	i do not have any cats , but i do have 2 wonderful dogs
any to help me forget about my cheating girl .	i have two adorable puppies
change of subject , what is your favorite color ?	do you have kids ? mine suck
i love red , reminds me of summer time .	purple . black and purple go together well .
i have a best friend	summer is the best season !
i really like waffles too	yes . i think everyone has that one ex .
hello , i am george , and i am great .	hi , its going well and you ?
i am 26 . my wife is 19 . she is an italian super model .	i am fine thank you how old are you .
stay in school , and raise bees . we need pollinators for the health of the earth .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
they should try again . that may have been due to them overheating during shipping .	wow , i wo not lie that sounds absolutely terrible .
i have raised bees for eight years .	they said it was wild .
it sure is . my family has a papaya orchard , we started them there .	that you know about haha .
not anymore . my wife and i live in milan , italy .	yes ! and farms i grew up on a big one
hi how are you today ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
my sister used a skate board one time in her act	i am doing well today , what do you do professionally ?
she got hurt by hitting a pole	ouch ! you know you are not suppose to do that . lol
she is a pole dancer	she was ? has she passed ?
she makes a bit she bought me a tractor	you sound rich . . . do you think she was after your money ?
yeah she had it painted bright red too	yeah she can help you count better !
i like to listen to music and you ?	i listen to classical music , and practice traditional drawing .
that is awesome do you work full time too ?	i enjoy listening to music !
hi , i love sports because my parents are athletic	no do you speak another language ?
i do speak another language and you ?	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
nice to know , i like to run and in marathons	i like chinese , you can get it delivered
wow , china is a big country , in china do they eat strange food	i always wanted to run a business but being an athlete keeps me pretty busy
i eat clean meaning i do not eat in a sloppy way or slurps	i do like chocolate , and tiramisu .
chocolate is expensive in china ? do they have white	yeah i bet , i eat fried chicken and chocolate cake today
slurping is not for chinese people , only the japanese does it	i do like chocolate , and tiramisu .
i am a life coach by the way	japanese is a hard language to learn . do you like sports
i am sweaty . i just got done working out for my job as a wrestler . you ?	hello , i am doing well thank you . you ?
i have never done a marathon . i should try it . how many have you done ?	no , i just do it for fun . maybe one day .
that is great . i help out at the homeless shelter . it is very fulfilling .	i lean on all my fellow volunteers . do you volunteer ?
thanks , i like people . i think most of them are good , so i try to help .	yes . i feel like it is fulfilling though .
i spend most of my time with my job and helping people . do you have any hobbies ?	i do but not professionally just for fun .
i could not do vegetarian . i need a lot of protein for my body	i enjoy cooking . i volunteer at a soup kitchen
how do you control the gas ? i do like beans , just not too many .	have you heard of soya beans ?
what is your favorite meal ?	i agree . i also like to eat just enough fruit and vegetables and lots of protein .
hi ! i love horror movies . what about you ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
cool me too . my father once worked in home depot .	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
i am working in human service field . what about you ?	i just started working with kids in school
that is cool . my son is in junior high school .	no kids yet , still too young . do you work ?
yes i have been here for a while . what about you ?	no i have not been to the movies in awhile .
i am not that old . what about you ?	i am 18 . how old are you ?
yes i am . i have a child who is 14	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
that is really great . i hope you have a healthy future .	ah , you have a child . only one ?
not bad hanging out with my cats . you ?	yes , i am fine , and you ?
oh hopefully you find one i am excited about winter its my fav	hello , i am good . would you like some pistachio ice cream ?
do you like icecream ? i really like vanilla	well we do go for ice cream at the park on some days .
do you collect anything ? i do hats	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
oh that is a good hobby can learn alot	no i do not collect anything
i like ice skating but i am not very good	i love to learn about anything i can
i try my best but its easier to learn as a kid	i eat ice cream sometimes . . .
i really like the blair witch 2 , you ?	best movie of all time
hi i am good how are you	hi ! good thanks , and you ?
that is cool are you going soon ?	hi good and you ?
yeah he is pretty awesome i like him too	right now , busy being a famous video game character online .
i am out of school i have a job	i am in my grad school
yeah haha i went to vet school but i would rather work from home	i am in third grade you
oh wow are you excited for high school	i am not forced to work yet just school which i really dislike
haha that is funny what kind of food do you like	haha , i like playing online games
hello ! i am well , and you ?	i am doing great and you ?
i do . what is your favorite ?	i love playing the video games , yes sir !
monopoly is the best game , i agree . what grade are you teaching ?	i like most music . i am a first grade teacher , you ?
teachers are wonderful . i have a cousin that teaches high school .	my mom taught second grade .
teachers are wonderful . i have a cousin that teaches high school .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
i love music as well .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
live music is the best .	i think it must be a type of music genre that i have not heard of .
good . just got done with my part time waitressing gig . you ?	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
does he like to play outside ? i like to ride my motorbike everywhere .	i am doing very well , thank you . getting ready to walk the dog .
do you like to race ? i have a shiny striped red and blue helmet for safety .	i like rap music . i turn in up driving in my car
no , but i like to look at food with my big brown eyes and light skin .	i like pizza and fried chicken . yours ?
i bet your eyes would match my bike helmet .	i can definitely relate . what is your eye color ?
i like to eat watermelons .	i only have to wear mine while driving thankfully .
spitting isn t lady like . i don t do that .	i do not blame you . it is dreary .
do any of your brothers race ? i could live on my motorbike .	both ? ? i wish i had siblings .
great ! just cannot sleep . why are you up so late ?	hi , i am doing well , how about you
dog videos are fun , cats too . i like the dog memes .	i love animals . going to adopt a dog
ah , dogs for boys cats for girls , huh ?	really ? i have two dogs and a cat
why pizza of course . well depends on what toppings .	oh yes , and pizza and burritos bring on mexican food
yeah there are no anchovies ! anchovy makes me a cat person i guess .	i will make tacos . my favorite .
they are yummy salty little fish . you should try them .	omg ew , i never eat that anymore lol
well that is a good plan . variety is the spice of life .	i would not want to clean fish . . .
i am a pro wrestler so there have been a lot of things .	no , just something i would like to try . i will one day .
hello paula . nice to meet you	hello , i am just relaxing after yoga , you ?
i am 34 . where do you live ? i am from alaska	hello i am 28 how old are you
what line of work are you in ?	what do you do ? i teach yoga classes
i actually quit working to focus on buddhism	i was also raised as a buddhist .
no i do not . my body is a temple . i meditate often	i love to chant . i am a buddhist . been so my entire life
your parents want what is best for you . are you in college ?	i was also raised as a buddhist .
excellent choice ! that will provide great opportunities	nope , full time school . and you ?
no , i get scared . i am excited about trick or treating . i am going to be ariel .	yes , i love horror movies
me too , and i already have the long red hair . it goes to my waist .	that is a fun age . how many kids are in your class ?
how old is she ? i am 12 . does she like school ? i hate it .	my sister is in grade one . are you a student ?
i wish my dad did . i get picked on because of my hair and blue eyes .	yes she love its but she is away a lot from it .
kids are just mean . they will not play with me .	because my blue and orange hair explains it all .
i like her name ! it is so pretty .	my daughters name is adia lehay .
she is so lucky to have a pretty name . my name is sarah jane .	she is very pretty . do you date ?
doing good . just strumming my guitar . how about you ?	hello i am fine and you ?
do you like cooking or baking ? or both ?	i am well , i am watching some anime and eating chocolate . how are you ?
my go to snack is chocolate bars	i like chinese , you can get it delivered
what other hobbies do you have ? i play violin and guitar	i only eat dairy free chocolate as a vegan . violin sounds fun .
yikes i hate roller coasters . they are so scary .	i play the electric violin an di love imagine dragons
what do you do for work ? i am an electrician just like my dad .	you swim to get around ? do you live in water world
do you speak any languages ? i am teaching myself chinese	i try to drink water mainly .
yeah it is hard to learn but i would love to visit china one day .	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i am very good , just practicing taking pictures . how are you ?	hi ! doing well , how about you ?
oh definitely ! i am moving next week into a new apartment with my boyfriend	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
learn a language , i speak english , french , and spanish . you can tutor or teach like i do	i do want to move to spain , study there and then teach english there afterwards though .
it is a rewarding job , i teach at an elementary school and that is even more rewarding	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
i understand that , i spend a lot of my free time practicing photography	do you like photography ? i like taking pictures .
i am not either but i will have my own studio in my new apartment	how long have you been taking pictures for ?
thank you very much ! i appreciate that !	thanks ! hopefully i will be able to teach english
i would be honored to teach you , maybe that second language !	thanks ! hopefully i will be able to teach english
good , how about you ? ?	hello , i am good tonight , i am just with my cats
hate math . do you have any pets ?	i am doing great . no class today ! how are you ?
awww ! i have cats , five of them . i know what you mean	we have 4 cats . they are so odd at times .
it is a lot of work ! do you have a job ?	i do not think that is a word lol
cool , i work in construction . i really enjoying home building !	i am a construction worker . how about you ?
soccer is a lot of fun . how long have you been playing ?	my whole life really . i do not play as much as i used to though .
it is great to have a passion	i have been playing for years , i enjoy it
i agree with that ! life is tough	where do you work then soccer person ?
hey there , i am doing well , what do you do for a living ?	i am doing well . where are you from ?
i am still in school , looking to be a lawyer	i am a lawyer , what about you ?
did you grow up in like a major city ? or ?	what is your fancy degree in ?
my god mother lives in trenton up there	lol i grew up on a farm in va but moved to pa
okay ? do you like m ms ?	i have seen them in chocolate and in hard candy .
way to copy the prompts	not especially . what year are you in law school ?
oh i am sure they are	ohhh la ti da lol . hopefully you will not feed me any peanuts .
mine raised horses , grew up on a farm	you just stay on the farm ?
no , i live in a small farming community in indiana . it is pretty boring .	sometimes i usually really only watch documentaries .
being a single parent is hard work . did you have any pets to keep you company ?	i am sorry . that is no fun . you should get a dog !
i have a german shepherd . the only books i have are coloring books , which i love .	we have a bunch of dogs i sure care a lot about them . do you like dogs ?
very nice . do you like sports ? i like to watch the nhl hockey league .	do you ever watch hockey ?
how long have you been playing ?	i love playing sports like soccer
that is pretty amazing , very lucky .	how long have you owned a farm ?
i like to play blackjack . you ?	i like to play field hockey and also soccer , you ?
i am doing very well	i am well , you ? are you in school ?
i like dancing and reading vegan books	no i went to different schools in several states . you ?
what was it like there	oh , what do you study ?
why were you forced into marriage	i bet lots of interesting stuff happens there . nothing happens here .
where do you live at	it just is not right if it never was yours .
i am in mississippi the south	i am in the midwest . how about you ?
how did you two meet	we are in the midwest at the moment .
i am too young for that	yes . are you married ? i was just married last year .
oh , i walk a couple miles a day so i know the pain .	oh really . do you have family in the military ?
oh , i love spending time with my family .	i use to , have one and read it sometimes .
i am glad he protected disneyland . it is my favorite place .	i use to , have one and read it sometimes .
i like reading books to relax .	you mean , you do not like his books ?
yeah , i need to do it a lot because i deliver babies .	yes its a way to relax .
yes it is pretty stressful .	it helps to reduce the distances and days you walk .
it makes me very happy .	it helps to reduce the distances and days you walk .
yeah , i am glad you think so .	it helps to reduce the distances and days you walk .
fine thank you lovely night where having .	hello , i am doing good and you ?
do you like jogging . i love running .	is there a drought or anything right now ?
sounds really dangerous . is it safe to do that .	i hear you . i run marathons too . . . they are no expensive at all .
wow cool ! i got a new job just yesterday .	i make a decent wage . sports cars huh ? like fast driving ?
miami ! i also like to eat clean	i am from washington dc , you ?
i know i really like the idea of eating healthy .	are you very health conscious ?
salad and meat . both of my parents were pretty athletic .	i try to eat healthy .
so what kind of thing do they not encourage you in ?	what do you study ? i am always training for a marathon .
i am good , thanks . just tired from the concert earlier . you ?	hello i am good ? do you work
i actually was performing . and , relaxation is always good .	was there music and dancing ?
it was an experience growing up in the industry . do you like country music ?	yes , do you like the singing ?
you will never leave harlan alive	i am not sure i have a favorite song . do you ?
lol . i hope that you will be ok .	i am not sure i have a favorite song . do you ?
i walk two miles with my daughter every morning and evening .	walking is fun so is joking ever watch movies ?
i have four kiddos . you ?	how many is a lot ?
that is great . i just opened up a jug of my homemade apple wine last night .	i have three kids who are growing up
hello , i am doing alright . getting ready to head to class myself .	i am doing well . i am graduating soon , so super excited ! you ?
i do , i am hoping to go to law school . not married , engaged .	i am a student right now but hope to finish soon and get a job .
we built a house on my family horse farm . we have over 5000 acres .	do you own a house ?
this has been in my family for generations .	it is a beautiful city . and , i try to be . . . just cannot afford a bigger house atm .
it truly is . we have been here for 200 years .	yeah it is a nice place to raise a family .
we have a food plot , mainly cattle and sheep	you must live in a larger city . where do you live ?
those are good too , we have a few pigs .	cattle stations run different there than cattle farms in the us do .
it sure does , and that is perfectly fine by me .	yes ! and farms i grew up on a big one
fine . i am emma . i am four .	i am doing great . hanging out wiht my dog . what are you doing ?
he he . do you like to sing ? i like the abc song .	i am fine thank you how old are you .
do they like candy sometimes ? i like chocolate .	oh , all kids love dogs , do you know i have two dogs ? you know what kind ?
i like pizza and cookies . i like blocks to play with .	i make great chocolate cakes . i could make you one for dessert ?
wow ! cool ! sometimes people can not understand me when i talk .	sounds like hard work , but that builds character .
that is silly . sometimes i wish i could be a dog .	i think i do ? do you they sing the song creep ?
thank you ! you are nice !	i do not quite understand you , do you like chocolate cake ?
not yet . bye bye . mommy is calling me .	yes . i did not want to spend years in school .
hi , how are you today ? do you like to go shopping ?	hello ! i am sorry to hear that . what is keeping her around ?
my favorite watch is the rolex ? what is yours ?	what kind of cars do you sell ?
my favorite thing is to go shopping for watches and shoes	i have a black subaru sedan . i love that car .
i am sorry . i guess it is good that i work for a watch dealer	do you like making cars ?
i am a girl too . but shopping is fun .	lol , i bet the car owners do not love that
i am sad too . my family does not want me to work for a watch dealer	do you like making cars ?
are there rolls royce ghost cars there . that is my dream car	you keep saying that . you know i do not live there , right ?
hi ! my name is sophie . i am doing well . how are you ?	i am good just watching a movie
i love watching the movie frozen and singing along !	i like to go to movies , listen to music , take vacations !
i just started the third grade and love to write poetry ! i write about mickey mouse .	what do you like to do ? i love disney movies and dancing .
my family and i go to disney world every year ! have you ever been ?	do your kids have favorites ? are you tired of hearing them sing disney tunes ?
i can not wait to go again !	we went to disney . next summer maybe not .
yes ! my favorite team is the steelers . what is yours ?	i do not . football takes too much of my time .
cool ! i have never met anyone who played beyond high school .	i love the game football !
where did you go to college ?	oh , i did not know there were songs in that game .
hello . i am on vacation in europe , doing very well tonight .	hi ! good thanks , and you ?
it is . i visit twice yearly . i am working on my art degree .	where is the best place you have visited ?
i love food , lol . i am doing a still life of fish and chips .	i try to paint anything that catches my eye and hold my interest .
i love paella , i eat it way too often to be healthy .	nothing wrong with that . i love to eat too lol
i think the best time is anytime , lol	oh yes mediterranean food is the best , so fresh and so much flavour
i eat ice cream sandwiches , like my great great whatever chris columbus .	ice cream is the best , especially on a hot day .
i collect shoes and lingerie , so i feel your pain .	i have over 200 . how many times have u done that ?
i love dogs . big dogs .	i have dogs and cats . do you have any pets ?
hello i am doing pretty good and yourself	hi , i am doing well , how about you
i rather watch a comedy then a horror movie	fine about to go to the movies . yo ?
oh really nice , i live alone i rather sew some curtains lol	i have still not seen that movie . if i had kids i probably would have
i do enjoy it a lot , i am retired and i have a cat	i live on my smartphone or gaming console
oh okay that really good , i figured i beat cancer being alone is not that bad	life keeps ya busy , huh ?
yeah i feel pretty good about that . i am living the good life now	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
i like sitting around home and enjoying myself , i think its time to get a smartphone	i improve old clothes as a side job .
that is pretty awesome , my cat	you can do anything you can . that is how i am getting through school
blah , getting ready for over eaters anonymous class , you ?	hello . i am doing fine . and you ?
i can not relax , i work with old stinky people .	i am doing just okay . how about you ?
i am a nurse . it is the only thing that give me hope .	i am full time a taxidermist and then the rest of the time i am with the kids .
i am to big to run , my wife left me because i am so big	no , i work too much for kids .
baby . . . . . . . she took my babies too ! ! what do you do ?	that would be difficult . have you named the baby yet ?
nurse and at night i manage atheist facebook groups .	i am a stay at home mom . my husband makes the money .
blue , i guess . what is yours ?	i love pink and baby blue
hey there . been a relaxed sunday . yours ? music eclectic .	i like all types of music .
death metal . cool . i spent the morning volunteering .	ah , music has always helped me see the finer things in life , would not you agree ?
that is great ! we both volunteer ! mine is rescuing bunnies .	when you sail on your boat , do you like to swim ? i do !
that is my idea of heaven . i love bunnies ! i donate to a bunny charity too .	i travel to india often . the indian ocean is beautiful . i think you would like it .
what programming language are you learning ?	yeah i love programming . it pays really well and i get to donate to charities .
that is cool . i tried c a long time ago , but could not understand it .	it can be fun and easy once you learn programming .
a free spirited death metal loving aspiring programmer !	there is a lot of pay in it if you are good . volunteering is noble .
i am sorry . hope things calm down between you .	that would be my mother . she has done so much for me .
i see . how are you doing today ?	yes i could not agree more with that .
perhaps i will make you an adviser if i take the world over .	hello , i am doing well . how about yourself ?
i have a grand child about your age . my kids should bring them around more	i hope you will be able to someday . do you have a family ?
perhaps your intelligence will survive time beauty is fleeting , and has not stayed with me .	your powerful story continues ! do you have kids ?
i also spend a lot of time alone . my two kids never come over anymore .	beauty is in the eye of the beholder . you agree ?
in my youth i painted . now my hands are stiff and i clean houses	that is funny and probably true ! i do not have children
yes they are . i am fifty six now .	yes i am . to the sweetest woman in the world .
i used to , yes .	no , i did not that is nice ! is that what you like to do ?
i am good . i am only four . i eat chocolate . would you like to be a dog ?	i am not working right now . how about you ?
i go to preschool i want to understand when people talk to me .	no i do not . i would love to learn .
i live in texas how about you ? do you have a dog ?	i study at a small state school in massachusetts
i have a dog . i really want to be a dog when i get older	i do not have time for pets right now . teaching is exhausting . thankful for chocolate !
i do not know . do you know how to become a dog ?	as long as i eat enough milk chocolate , i will be .
i can do that if it will help me be a dog	i make great chocolate cakes . i could make you one for dessert ?
me too . do you like chocolate	as long as i eat enough milk chocolate , i will be .
i like snickers . do you like snickers ?	chocolate is a favorite ! so many ways to eat it lol
that is great ! i used to know someone who was 106 . she had been judy garlands dentist	do you ?
hamburgers and french fries will not help me to live that long , but they are my fav foods	that makes you in your 50s !
i like walking . my house is close to a river and park so i walk there	do you have another hobby besides wine ? lol
i knew a hundred year old who remembered wwi	i do not remember it was so long ago lol
i like drinking rum but not with soda anymore .	i hike , read , craft . what about you ?
wine must be the secret to a long life then	i do not drink soda . do you have any hobbies ?
yes the 106 year old i knew had all those things . so i guess that works	you will live long and prosper , they say .
i do not have any children and i sell electronics on the internet	i do not know , i have been this way since i was young .
oh gosh another day just grateful .	i am great . you ? watching some tv .
my hearing is not that good i just reached 100 years .	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
i am not sure if life has begun yet , i feel that there is way more ahead .	i watched it when i was younger .
i feel strong , other than the hearing part . i hear music from the inside .	the whole experience annoys me . do you watch tv ?
i drink and dance at night when the moon is out .	i listen to music most of the day
you better . with or without tv . nobody had tv when i was young .	i like to make wineglass candles .
i cannot remember . i try hard to remember but nothing comes up .	i watched it when i was younger .
not really i am happy to forget all things .	if i was younger i would have to agree .
i am a piano teacher on the side	i actually live on a working farm . you must really like animals .
i explore new parts of the city i am in	i play guitar when i am not working at the local community college . you ?
those are beautiful horses . my father plays violin professionally .	do you play any instruments ?
i play quite a lot of instruments	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
piano , guitar , drums , flute , chello	i play several instruments . what is your favorite music genre ?
yeah well music has been my passion in life	yes , i teach guitar , violin , etc . i play several instruments actually
that is awesome do you cook them or eat them raw	fair . it is definitely my passion
that seems quite interesting	yes , i play rock but still take piano and violin . what do you cook ?
oh how are you doing ? i am sorry to hear that .	hello , are you staying in on this horrid , rainy day ?
i once lived in my moms house .	who taught you to cook ?
i am so sorry mines too in my twenties .	oh , i am sorry about that .
yes i am with my boyfriend now try not to think about it .	yeah i understand that . i am lucky to have help .
yes i know it is hard i cannot drink soda .	i am sure you stay busy then . what do you do for work ?
yes my sister calls it pop too .	you keep saying that . you know i do not live there , right ?
i eat to much french fries and hamburgers plenty food .	i do not really drink soda but that would be my first choice .
hi , my name is taylor . you might know my dad , he was a construction worker .	hello ! not to much how about yourself ?
no , do you like coffee ? because i love it !	i do not know . i drink so i do not have to think about it .
what ? well how about alcohol , i hate alcohol and the color pink	so i love drinking tea . are you a tea or coffee person ?
i love blue too , i also enjoy mountain biking . have you ever tried it ?	blue is pretty ! what do you do for a living ?
cool , anything else interesting about you ?	no , it sounds like a horrible hobby .
no , i am a pretty bland person	i volunteer at the aspca , and i am in a coffee club . you ?
yeah i guess , i actually went mountain biking yesterday at mt . ember	yes , i guess anything you enjoy doing could be a hobby .
whats up ? i am okay , broke up with my boyfriend recently	hello , i am fine and you ?
does she like to go hiking in the mornings ? i love that !	i am sorry to hear that . how are you holding up ?
awesome ! how old ? i just turned 18 .	i do not play , but also enjoy fishing and dogs ! do you have any pets ?
wow your mom does not want to retire ?	i am 18 . how old are you ?
that is impressive . and yes i do ! do you like fish ?	yes all the time since i retired .
no not to eat . i have a huge aquarium and have them as pets .	fish is okay , but i prefer to hike instead of catching it fresh .
wow ! that is terrible . what is your favorite color ?	fish is okay , but i prefer to hike instead of catching it fresh .
orange is mine . why white ?	red . haha i feel like the sun is more orange than yellow
i am working on both of my vintage mustangs	i like to drive my mustang and eat great food
cool i love country music sone songs are in spanish	i love music . what is your favorite genre ?
cool i love going to the country music concerts	i love to do it . i know spanish , latin and french
what dons that mean in english ?	do you speak spanish ? i love spanish music
cool . i have to walk my 2 dogs soon	its work what can i say . i just like driving my mustang gt to work .
i cant wait we will walk to the park	i have dogs too , they behave in my cars .
i will and live life and have fun !	why do you have to walk ? do you not have a car ?
we both do and we will be happy with life	yes , life is wonderful and we need to be grateful .
so high up where ? i am at ground level	como esta how are you
what are you doing up there ? i hate heights	your favorite food cannot be spanish , that is a language .
well sounds exciting ! i am trying to study . . for my spanish class	hi sure i would love to . do you speak spanish ? i grew up in mexico .
i am studying french next ! i love languages	spanish is actually already one of my languages
i love the word trabajo . . . just rolls off the tongue	do you speak spanish ? i love spanish music
what kind ? holiday parties ? work parties ?	right on ! i do love to party . i do not party as much as i would like to though .
yes that is always a good time . do u work ?	aside from loud partying sometimes , i guess ?
okay , very rewarding i am sure	no , i just volunteer sometimes . what do you do ?
i am fine but my skateboard needs to be fixed	hello my friend . i am well .
yes , and my arm was broken when	not really , but i could give it a try .
my friends were all skateboarding	you are right . could get hurt like me ! what else do you like doing ?
have you heard of rob dryden ?	video games are very cool !
he is a skater that i really look up to	he is hilarious , but so is my online game character . haha
of course but not really my focus right now healing	but i still rock on a skateboard ! serious
oh why did you do it	do you have a prosthetic then ?
oh , but at least you are learning now	you should try it . hurts less than you probably think .
hello jenny ! my name is lee and i am retired .	hi , i am good eating dinner ?
no i do not , but i like to grill . a gold medal ! fantastic !	i like competitive sports and winning .
no . i go south in the winter and i do like to gamble .	no , i just enjoy it for fun . its good exercise and relaxing . you should try it .
i like italian . my fave is lasagna .	ll and what is your fav thing to eat ? i like everything italian .
i have not tried that but it sounds good .	yes , healthy desserts are the best !
is plantain a kind of banana ?	well i may have to try it then .
that sounds like it would be good .	yes it is very good . i like how it taste .
i am quite well . enjoying my tofu salad	hello , i am fine how about you . whats your favorite color , mine is blue
i only eat vegetables . where are you from ?	are you vegetarian ? i love cooking , it would be neat to fix a vegetarian meal .
wow ! do you like it here ?	do you cook vegetarian food . that ias what i am .
are you married to anyone ?	oh yes . you would like it . i like it there .
i married to the man of my dreams	no , i am a single woman .
bob but he goes by stanley	my name is marry what is yours
we love painting and ballroom dancing what about you ?	he loves double cheese burgers and chicken nuggets
hi country guy , my husband and i live in the country too	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
cool . no horses here , just a german shepherd	ooh a farm ! do they have dogs ?
ok . do you have any hobbies ?	do you ever watch hockey ?
that is quite to hobby . i like nhl and those adult coloring books .	i like watching sports , but hockey is my favorite . no pets , any life goals ?
they sure are . i even have one with horses .	i use to watch hockey alot whats your favorite team ?
sure . i can not really say the same about law school	i will check it out , too . do you have a family ?
me too . i will be nice to know an attorney .	i know one day it will be worth it , but yeah , its really hard .
pretty good . got some pizza coming . whoo !	i am good , are you into music
oh wow . all i have is a dog . that is enough for me .	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
doberman . his name is charlie .	i have a little dog , you ?
i produce music . what do you do at the bank ?	i work at a call center with city bank . it pays the bills . you ?
when are you due ?	i work at the bank .
i thought it was twins ?	baby ? are you pregnant perchance ?
you will be busy with all those kids .	sahm . i have twin boys who are 4 .
awesome . need to find a bigger place myself .	kids make is all worth it , right ?
my biggest fear is being attacked by scorpions	i do not think there is any such thing .
i work for the government , the u s postal service to be exact	with your dogs ? you should play with model airplanes . that is what i do
i believe they are insects , ny daddy use to drive a nascar race car	no , they are still out there . . . believe !
my dog which is a german shepard , is a retired cop	oh , concerts , i am not really into it
his name is barnaby , he is 13 years old	yes me too he is teaching me so much .
teaching is a great profession , you should be proud	he is alright . that is a cool job to have .
i think you may be right about that , he is very smart	i used to want to be a race car driver when i was a kid
without teachers this world would be stupid	i could teach him as well
doing good man , just tuning up my guitar . i have a gig tonight .	i am great , i like music
i am a janitor , but i also play music at night . you ?	i go part time , have to work . what are you studying ?
it is , i am like bob dylan . lol someday i guess .	my job is not very fulfilling , but it does make good money .
one of them , i play instruments like him and folk songs too .	i guess so , i like all music !
yes , he is the best . do you think so ?	i do not think so . he always tells me what to do .
what else do you like to do ?	yes , i guess so . i need to think that way .
i play my folk songs at a coffee shop sometimes . it is nice .	i work at a coffee shop to make money .
every morning before i go to my janitor job . it is hard .	i work at a coffee shop to make money .
i am doing great on this crisp fall night	hi ! i am good . you ?
sports are ok but i love cooking shows and cooking	i like swimming . do you have any pets ?
that is a great idea i am single so i only make enough for one	do you do any water sports ?
but it is tough cause i am vegan and my friends are not	we all live together trying to survive an make it
i like to go skydiving or ride a rollercoaster	i like cooking , swimming , my dogs .
wow first floor apt for me so no stairs	i like swimming . i can actually jump straight up out of the water
how many children do u have	do you build the ones divers cab swim in ?
i love dogs want a husky but cant have one yet	that is a big household , we just have the dogs ! !
